The Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal matters, Hon Opeyemi Bamidele, has congratulated the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his emergence as the presidential candidate of the party. The Senator representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, posited winning the keenly and highly pulsating shadow poll confirmed Tinubu’s wizardry in politicking and how strong his stature has become in national politics. Bamidele, former Commissioner under Tinubu-led government in Lagos, said this in a statement he personally signed, congratulating the APC National leader on his victory in the presidential shadow poll. The lawmaker upbeat that the victory is certain for APC in the 2023 presidential poll with Tinubu on the ballot for APC, describing him as an enigma, with a wide and electrifying network of friends and development partners who can facilitate victory for APC. Tinubu: Back Story And The Morning After The serving Senator, who doubles as the Chairman  of Southern Senators Forum, added that Tinubu’s political dexterity and astuteness in building men and setting up strong and unbreakable team to lead Nigeria will assume national dimension with him as the President giving  his antecedents in Lagos as a governor  . Bamidele praised President Muhammadu Buhari and the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee for conducting a free, fair and credible primary, saying this buttressed the point that the APC stands tall in promotion of democratic ethos. “Let me congratulate my leader and mentor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his victory at the poll. In fact, this was a victory well -earned and deserved. It is also a victory so sweet and so timely at an extremely crucial stage of our democratic growth and nation building. “I salute those who contested with him for their brotherly and sportsmanship spirits.  I appreciate most especially Governor Kayode Fayemi, Governor Abubakar Badaru, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, Senator Godswill Akpabio, Senator Ajayi Borroffice and others for showing patriotic zeal and stepping down for this living legend in respect of his contributions to democratic growth.