83-year-old retired Archbishop of Methodist Church of Nigeria, Prince Ayo Ladigbolu, has joined 47 other candidates jostling for the vacant stool of Alaafin of Oyo throne.  The Achbishop Ladigbolu, who hails from Ladigbolu royal family of Agunloye ruling house, will be 84 on June 27 this year.  The revelation was contained in the list and letters of intent of the candidates the Agunloye ruling house handed over to Baba Iyaji (head of princes and princesses) for onward presentation to the Oyomesi (Kingmakers).  The Oyomesi will thereafter review the resume of the candidates, their credibility and other relevant characteristics, in addition to consultation of the Ifa oracle for a perfect selection.  The Oyomesi is headed by the Basorun of Oyo, who is the prime minister.  Ladigbolu, well-known for his cordial relationship with people of other faiths and unusual love for culture, was very close to the immediate-past Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III.  Handing over the applications to Baba Iyaji, High Chief Mukaila Afonja, the head of Agunloye ruling house (Mogaji), Pa Samuel Adeladan, said the applicants were eminently qualified, pointing out that they were accomplished princes from five branches of the ruling house.  He told Chief Afonja that the Mogaji of each branch of the ruling houses conducted initial screening while the committee set up by the ruling house, which he also heads, discovered some who were found wanting in tracing their roots in the ruling house.  Adeladan urged Chief Afonja not to accept applications from any other person, stressing that only the 48 were the true sons of Agunloye ruling house, adding that the family was ready to accept and support any of the candidates that is selected.  Responding, Baba Iyaji assured Agunloye and his committee members that he would follow the existing Alaafin of Oyo Chieftaincy Declaration which recognises only the Agunloye and Alowolodu ruling houses.  He pointed out that he was aware that the state government had approved that a review should be undertaken to accommodate other royal families but that only a sitting Alaafin can undertake it.  He disclosed that some members of other ruling houses had been seeking his help to be included in the race, but he told them pointedly that he would not do anything outside the Declaration.  When asked about the age bracket of the expected candidate, he said: “Any qualified candidate will be fine. These candidates have been reviewed. Their documents speak volumes of their pedigree. They all have good education and are highly experienced.”