 This deficit keeps increasing due to high rate of urbanisation and population growth thereby resulting in high rent, overcrowding and poor living conditions. Numerous research studies predominantly focused on investigating the challenges of housing delivery on the basis of quantity and quality perspectives. However, there is a dearth of evidence-based studies regarding the challenges militating against sustainable housing provision.
However, housing is much broaderand complex than a house in which people live. It also involves the provision of essential amenities andinfrastructural facilities towards achieving comfortableliving in the built environment.  It is a process of providing safe, functional, and affordable shelter whilereflecting the socio-economic, cultural aspirations andpreferences of individuals and families within the community. Housing is, therefore, a critical component in the social and economic rubric of nations. It has a profound influence on health,efficiency, social behaviour, satisfaction and generalwelfare of a community. As observed by, housing links the physical development of a city, with itssocial and economic attributes. The concept of sustainable development ispremised on the principle of economic and social development. It seeks to achieve a balance betweenhuman activities and nature without jeopardising socialand economic systems for future generations. It refers to the ability of the “natural environment” to sustain the physical, social and economic activities, for the overallhuman development. It is a multidimensionalprocess that links environmental protection with economically, socially and culturally sound development. It is on this note that experts in the housing sector sees the need for an urgent sustainable housing policy that would address the housing gap.  According to the company’s director-general of Sales and Marketing, Mrs. Folashade Oloruntoba who recently at a a press conference to herald activities marking its 10th anniversary in Lagos affirmed that when government create an enabling environment by making land and finances available to real estate developers it will be easy to bridge the nation’s housing deficit referenced by the United Nation statistics to be about 22 million. Oloruntoba, who called for urgent steps to eradicate constraints fueling the mismatch between the demand and supply of homes in the country, said Adron Homes and Properties has been in the forefront of providing affordable properties for Nigerians. She said the company is set to distribute N3,000 worth of fuel to 3,500 Nigerians to celebrate its 10th anniversary, adding that, “Adron Homes and Properties are bent on giving back to the society and this the company has continually done over its 10 years of existence. “The company will be targeting several filling stations across eight states, namely; Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Abuja, Nasarawa, Niger and Ekiti starting from Tuesday 31st of May till the last person is been served”.
Oloruntoba explained that the purpose of the programme is to appreciate their customers, urging everyone to take advantage of the company’s affordable housing scheme with a flexible payment plan that will span across 24 to 36 months payment duration.