An Ondo State High Court sitting in Akure yesterday sentenced three of the four persons that killed Olufunke Olakunri, daughter of Afenifere leader, Reuben Fasoranti, to death by hanging. The convicts are Lawal Mazaje from Kogi State, Adamu Adamu from Adamawa State and Mohammed Usman from Sokoto State. The fourth defendant, Auwalu Abubakar from Zamfara State, was however discharged and acquitted for aiding and abetting. They were part of eight-man bandits who ambushed the vehicle of Mrs Olakunri on July 12, 2019 along the Ore-Kajola expressway and opened fire on her, resulting in her death. Before they were convicted, the defendants were brought before the court on counts of armed robbery, conspiracy, conspiracy to commit a felony, conspiracy to commit armed robbery, kidnapping, murder, aiding and abetting. The presiding judge, Justice Williams Rotimi Olamide, held in his judgment that the prosecution proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. Justice Olamide sentenced the three defendants to death by hanging. Olamide said; “That you, Mohammed Shehu, Mazaje Lawal, Adamu Adamu and others now at large on or before July 12, 2019, about 9 am, at Tollgate, along Ore/ljebu Ode Expressway, within the jurisdiction of this court, did murder one Ogunbiyi Matthew, aged 65 years, contrary to and punishable under Section 316 of the Criminal code, Cap36, Vol. 1 Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006. “That you Mohammed Shehu,  Mazaje Lawal, Adamu Adamu and others now at large on or before July 12, 2019, did kidnap one Gerald Igboayaka, thereby committing an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 3(ii) (b) of the Ondo State Anti-Kidnapping and Anti-Abduction Law, 2010. “Conspiracy to commit armed robbery contrary to and punishable under Section 6(b) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act, Cap R11, Vol. 14, Laws of Federation of Nigeria, 2004. For Armed robbery, contrary to and punishable under Section 1(2) (a) & (b) of the Robbery and Firearms {Special Provisions) Act, Cop R11, Vol, 14, Laws of Federation of Nigeria, 2004.” The pan Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere, in a reaction, applauded the nation’s judiciary for finally bringing the killers of Mrs Olufunke Olakunrin  to justice. Afenifere in a statement signed by its national publicity secretary, Comrade Jare Ajayi, averred that the judgement was an indication that justice can be adroitly dispensed in Nigeria if the judiciary is allowed to function unfettered. It would be recalled that Olufunke was murdered on June 2019 at Oore in Odigbo local government of Ondo State after a visit to her father in Akure, Ondo State. Four suspects were arrested six months later and charged first to a magistrate court before the then attorney general of the state, Mr. Kola Olawoye, got the case to be transferred to a High Court. Afenifere also commended the Nigeria Police Force for diligently investigating and prosecuting the case and lauded the Ondo State government and the judiciary for their diligence in handling the case. “The diligence, prosecution and final resolution of the case will go a long way in rekindling the confidence of the public in the judiciary,” it said. Afenifere expressed hope that this sort of diligent and effective process would be brought to bear in all other cases in such a manner that justice would be truly and promptly dispensed without regard to the status or inclinations of those involved. It added that the excitement the verdict elicited was not necessarily because the culprits are going to die as it were, but, rather, the excitement was in the fact that at last, those who killed are going to pay the supreme price as well. “It is clear proof that no matter how long it takes; the day of reckoning will certainly come for evil-doers as those who operate in the dark lane never have good endings,” it added.