The body also urged the management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, (NNPCL) to take more than passing interest in activities at DAPPMA. National President of IPMAN, Debo Ahmed and National Publicity Secretary, Chinedu  Ukadike made the observation in a joint statement made available to newsmen. The two national officers expressed concern over the sale of petroleum products to members of IPMAN above the NNPCL approved template of N148.00 which they noted was inimical to their survival. While he agreed that its members would stick to the government approved price of N165.00 per litre at retail outlets across the country, Ahmed called on the NNPCL to save his members from the excesses of (DAPPMA). He said:”The government is doing nothing about the private depots that are violating the system by selling higher. “IPMAN members had suffered a lot in the hands of private depot owners. “We appreciate the efforts of NNPC to make product available but you cannot rob Peter to pay Paul. “We  have  really suffered a lot of setback based on the cost of diesel. “We aren’t saying there is non availability of petroleum products, but what is available isn’t sufficient . The cost of diesel has also increased. “These two factors have led to profiteering at tank farms, whereby marketers buy petroleum products at the rate of N169. 00, to N170.00 above government controlled pump price. “These non availability has led to  profiteering from the hands of Products Depot Operations along the coastal areas. We are also finding it difficult to move products from Lagos- Kano- Kaduna since we are heavily dependent on PDOs since they are located along the coastal areas. So, after looking at all these factors, it cost close to N700,000 to move petroleum products from Lagos  to Kano since we are at the mercy of the PDOs. “ It is becoming increasingly difficult for marketers to sell petroleum products with this little margin. It is easy for marketers to move products from NNPCL depots to sell at N165.00 but since we aren’t getting at N148.00,  which is the government template for private depot tank farm owners to sell  to marketers, but we are getting at N160.00, there is no way a marketer will use N5.00 to sell petroleum products. It isn’t viable, considering the cost of maintenance of the filling station and also cost of fund. A litre of Automotive Gas  Oil, (diesel) is very huge and we are borrowing these funds from commercial banks. We want to use this opportunity to tell NNPC on behalf of marketers to ensure that we have sufficient products. “These products are being sold to  private depots at government approved rates, not above N148.00 . If they can’t stick to approved template, they should close down those tank farms selling above what government has stipulated.” Also speaking with newsmen, National Chairman of Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners, (NARTO) Alhaji Yusuff Lawal Othman, dismissed the claim of  national chairman of Association of Distributors and Transporters of Petroleum,Alhaji Mohammed Danzaki. Othman dismissed the group as non existent as he maintained that only NARTO is known to players in the downstream sector of the oil industry. “We don’t know ADITOP, the government only relates with NARTO for haulage of petroleum products. “We are the owners of vehicles and the Petroleum Tanker Drivers are our drivers. If they say they are the owners of, who are their drivers and NARTO is the only recognised association that discussed with government on haulage, we discuss with PTD on drivers allowances. “ We are the only haulage agency recognised by downstream operators in this country.” 