 Addressing a press conference in Kafanchan, Engr. Jatau Musa Luka said, “We are the concerned members of the Sen. Danjuma Laah, SDL, Media Team-a group of mostly young persons bonded by a shared vision to keep Sen. Laah in office beyond 2023 by promoting his giant strides in the senate between 2015 and now.  “In particular, his achievements in the areas of security, education, infrastructure, employment opportunities, among others remain some of the best in the history of representation of the zone in the senate.  “Unfortunately, in spite of the many months of robust media campaign, strategic communications, and consultations by our team and the campaign organisation in the build-up to the primary elections, the outcome of the election wasn’t what we all hoped for, so we lost.”
He said the outcome, though very painful, suggests that the people of Southern Kaduna wanted someone new at the Senate, hence the vote for Hon. Sunday Marshal Katung. “Regrettably, the developments that have continued to trail the conduct of that primary election on 24th May, 2022 have been causing serious concerns. Worthy of mention is the apparent unnecessary silence of the distinguished Senator, Danjuma Laah, since after losing the primary elections and the matters arising therefrom. “We are afraid that his palpable silence, refusal to concede defeat, and the dangerous rhetorics by his Media Aide about the outcome of the primaries or the personality of the winner have continued to generate tension as well as pitch party members against each other. “It is against this backdrop that we appeal to our leader, the distinguished Senator Danjuma Laah, to graciously accept defeat and move on, the same way many others before him have done. His silence, at a time that he is supposed to give direction to his followers and the party as a whole in the zone creates an opening for mischief makers to divide us and for the opposition party in the zone to cash in”. The group therefore averred that “Failure of the Senator to accept defeat will not only show ingratitude for what the people have done to him over the years, but a smack of desperation which he is not known for. “We condemn in totality the needless silence of our principal since his loss at the primary election last May. “We dissociate ourselves henceforth, from any and all schemes targeted at casting aspersions on the victory or person of the winner of the Kaduna South Senatorial District primaries, Hon. Barr. Sunday Marshall Katung in the name of the SDL Media Team. “We declare our unwavering support for the candidate of the party, Hon. Barr. Sunday Marshall Katung and also assure of our readiness to join hands with other party faithfuls to work for his victory come 2023. The text of the briefing was jointly signed by Dr. Khalin Suleiman Wujat and Solomon Chindo.