Niger State governor and chairman, North Central States’ Governors Forum (NCSGF), Abubakar Sani Bello, has described the emergence of a former Lagos State governor, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, as the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential standard bearer, as one that was in the best interest of justice, fairness, unity and political stability of the nation. The governor, in a congratulatory to message signed by his chief press secretary, Mary Noel-Berje, said the choice of Tinubu amongst other qualified aspirants was not just an expression of confidence of the teeming party delegates across the country, but would remain a victory for the Nigeria project. Governor Sani Bello described the victory of the Mr. Tinubu as one that represents confidence in his ability and capacity to rework the country, reestablish the waning confidence of the people, and propel the turnaround of the nation’s dwindling economy in the shortest possible time. He said, “We wholeheartedly congratulate and rejoice with him. It is an affirmation of his wide acceptance and a clear demonstration that the APC national leader is credible, capable and has the ability of spearheading a march towards the country’s rebirth.” The governor, who described the process of the APC presidential primary election as free, fair and credible, reaffirmed that the emergence of a Southern candidate as a standard flag bearer of the party was in the best interest of justice, fairness, unity and political stability of the nation. Governor Sani Bello urged other presidential aspirants, leaders, stakeholders and members of the APC to rally round the party’s standard flag bearer and work relentlessly to ensure that the party is returned to power at all levels in the 2023 general elections. “The transparent and successful conduct of the election and the cooperation of party members, it has become a great stepping stone for the party’s victory in the forthcoming elections next year,” he added. He expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring that the APC presidential primary election became a source of consensus rather than division, stressing that his guidance has been inspirational to the party. The governor commended the party’s chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, and all members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party for ensuring a hitch-free and successful presidential primaries.