Famous businessman and entertainment mogul, Obinna  Iyiegbu, popularly known as Obi Cubana, has promised to mitigate the housing challenges faced by Nigerians by providing affordable accommodation for residents of Abuja irrespective of status or class. He made this known  during the official groundbreaking ceremony of a $1million New Dawn & Casa Cubana Golf City yesterday in Abuja. The sprawling site sitting on about 45 acres of land situated at the Jabi- Airport Road, has started to experience massive development with roads construction, drainage, plotting and layout and architectural masterpiece. Speaking with journalists in Abuja, the CEO of the project, Mr Cubana said: “Yes,  I have broken every record when it comes to entertainment, not only in Nigeria but throughout Africa, and there’s a need for us to diversify and offer quality service to our various clientele. “That’s why we incorporated the golf course. You can just take a walk from your house to play golf. You don’ t need to drive anywhere. “We have low-income earners in our plans. That’s why we are saying it’s for everyone. Also, we are creating hundreds of jobs for all manners of people.” He added that the Luxury Apartment will cost a whopping $1m (about N620m), saying the Estate is having a 12-month timeline to be ready to the public. “The Estate will boast of 24-hour power supply, central sewage system, shopping mall, banking , gymnasium with a golf course”,  he further stated. It was gathered that eco-friendly blocks that are fire retardant will be used throughout in the construction of the exquisite homes. Dignitaries that attended the glamorous groundbreaking event include former Kogi state Governor Idris Wada, Maj-Gen.B.A  Abba, Senator Bola Origen, Hon. Mohammed Ibrahim, Sir Dave Nwosu, Dr. Shuaibu Mohammed and several business associates and members of the  diplomatic missions. The business mogul who chairs Cubana Groups, is renowned for entertainment, hospitality, entrepreneurship and philanthropy. Upon completing his secondary education in 1988 Obi Cubana proceeded to the University of Nigeria Nsukka where he obtained a degree in Political Science. In 2006, Obi Cubana started his first club Ibiza Club in Abuja seeking to satisfy fun seekers and nightlife lovers. Following the remarkable progress he made from the Ibiza Club, he established the Cubana group, a hospitality club that provides an all-around entertainment satisfaction in 2009. The group was first established in Owerri, Imo state capital Nigeria. Today, Cubana has spread his business tentacles across a couple of states in the country, including Lagos, Enugu and Abuja, the nation’s capital city among others.  