Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, a group of support groups of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have formed an electoral and campaign network, to promote and project the party as well as work for the victory of its candidates at the state and presidential election level. The new coalition known as the APC Support Network was unveiled yesterday in Abuja with its national coordinator, Alhaji Bashir Ado Kazaure, and former national secretary of the APC, Arch Waziri Bulami as its BoT chairman, and former Kogi information commissioner, Dr Tom Ohikere as its chief strategist. Kazaure said the network will foster the engagement of most Nigerians, through one on one, peer-to-peer, consultation, and also facilitate constructive engagement with other political parties and institutions such as civil societies, the media, and election management bodies. He said the network is a conglomerate of leaders of various APC support movements grouped to form a high-level synergy under one platform with the primary purpose of fast tracking all political activities of the party to help in actualising its dreams thereof. He said it is an umbrella body of like-minded support groups that think outside the box for greater developmental initiatives based on the party’s manifesto. “We are committed to ensuring the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from ward level up to National.” Also speaking, Mr Bulama said it is the dream of every APC stakeholder and member to see the success of the party at all levels. “This success most times comes with lots of painstaking efforts, especially in terms of mobilisation of resources-human and nonhuman resources. “The APC Support Network- a support group formed with leaders of other support and interest groups coming together to support our dear party to success. A document has been drafted by the network, an attempt has been made to insert an implementable work plan which highlights strategies to carry out to ensure the party’s success. “However, the caliber of people I have seen across the organs of the network speaks volumes of what they can do. I am confident that, the result of their effort will manifest should they have at their disposal the needed support to carry out this laudable project, Bulama stated.