The serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Lagos, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has said that despite the challenges presently facing the country, he was confident that a new nation that Nigerians will be proud of could still be achieved, saying it would require concerted efforts to transform the country. The Lagos fiery preacher, who stated this during his church’s Sunday Service, congratulated the winner of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primary election, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on his emergence as the party’s flagbearer and wished him the best in the 2023 general elections. In his address titled, “A New Nigeria Is Still Possible”, Bakare said he remained committed to such a new Nigeria that would work for all and sundry. “I congratulate the winner of the APC presidential primaries, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for his victory. His emergence as the flagbearer and presidential candidate of the APC is a testament to his significant contributions to the course of the South-West as well as his labour towards the formation and establishment of the APC as I have said in times past. “I, therefore, extend best wishes to him as he proceeds on the campaign trail towards the 2023 general elections,” he said. Pastor Bakare, who was one of the APC presidential aspirants that contested the primary election, added that, “since the conclusion of the APC primaries in Abuja on June 7 and June 8, he had received an almost endless stream of visitors and shared various impressions, but has yet to make any official public statements till this Sunday. “As the main constituency and core group I am accountable to, I deem it appropriate to share a few thoughts with you first,” he said. Harping on his involvement in politics, Bakare said it was antithetical that some parents wanted their children to grow up to be President but did not want them to become politicians in the process. The overseer said that he had a lifelong commitment to serving his nation, Nigeria, saying he was more convinced now more than ever that the quest to serve his beloved country had been a worthy adventure for a worthy cause. Bakare thanked his supporters across the nation and in the Diaspora for their unalloyed support, despite the challenges leading up to the primary election. “Our heads remain unbowed because we did not compromise on the values that are integral to building a New Nigeria. “For us, the means have always been as important as the end. This is why we confidently wear our ‘zero votes’ as a badge of ‘zero tolerance for a certain kind of politics’. The cleric said that his confidence was rooted in the Biblical reference in Daniel 4:17 that, only God rules human kingdoms and can raise leaders out of losers. Pastor Bakare explained that since he will ultimately give account to God, he will continually trust Him despite what may today appear to be a setback. He said,  “There is still a cause and there is still a nation to transform. This is not the work of just one man or woman or just one party, but the calling upon every Nigerian worthy of the name. “It is my earnest prayer that the good Lord will bless Nigeria with leaders not in love with money but in love with justice.” The clergyman who prayed that God should bless Nigeria with leaders not in love with publicity but in love with humanity, also prayed that God should bless Nigeria with leaders who can subject their particular egos to the pressing urgencies of the great cause of freedom. “May we all find it within ourselves to become these leaders no matter the temptation to be less than. “This is the moment when those leaders must begin to revive the dreams of our founding patriots; the dreams of a strong and united Nigeria though tribes and tongues may differ. ‘’This is the moment where we begin to live up to the ideals etched in our founding creeds  the ideals of a Nigeria where every Nigerian has a seat at the table of nationhood, and the ideals of a Nigeria where peace and justice reign. This is the moment where we begin to build a bridge between the dreams of our past, the realities of our present and the visions of our future towards a New Nigeria; a Nigeria where every man or woman, and every boy or girl, can live up to his or her full potential, and be all that they were created to be. “The dreams of a Nigeria where no one is oppressed, no matter which part of the country they come from and live in, and no matter how they choose to worship God,’’ he added. He said Nigeria has a seat at the table of nationhood, especially an ideal Nigeria where peace and justice reign, adding that the moment had come where Nigerians should begin “to build a bridge between the dreams of our past, the realities of our present and the visions of our future towards a New Nigeria. A Nigeria where every man or woman, and every boy or girl, can live up to his or her full potential, and be all that they were created to be. “I remain audaciously confident that a New Nigeria is possible and that, upon the foundational values of integrity and incorruptibility. “Nigeria will, no doubt, become a cutting-edge nation; a nation that will, one day, be the peace, progress, prosperity and possibilities capital of the world. “I remain committed to working towards this cause in the days ahead in whatever capacity God and the good people of Nigeria so choose,” he stated.