Deputy national publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Yakubu Murtala Ajaka, had asked former Kano State governor, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, to return to the governing party where he built and has great future to become president.   The APC spokesman noted that the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) does not have hope of becoming a president on his current political platform.   Speaking with journalists on Sunday in Abuja, Ajaka however said it was not too late for Kwankwaso to retrace his steps.   According to him, Kwankwaso knew about the formation of APC, contributed immensely to its success in 2015 and APC leaders hope to repay him at the appropriate time, but he cannot be outside to be a beneficiary in the nearest future.   Ajaka stated: “So, that is why I said it is not too late for him to return to the APC. That is where he naturally belongs and has an assurance of becoming a president one day, and not his current sectional NNPP.   “Although some people might be deceiving him by calling him Mr. President already, but just one or two states in the North West cannot make him a president. Kwankwaso needs a national party like APC to achieve his presidential ambition. So, I plead with him to do the needful before its too late”.   When asked to comment on Peter Obi and his Labour Party, the APC deputy spokesperson said when the real campaign starts Nigerians will differentiate between boys and men in politics of 2023 general elections.   “Just like Kwankwaso, Peter Obi is only enjoying sectional sympathy but a real presidential candidate needs to enjoy acceptability from all parts of the country.   “So, we believe that Peter Obi should enjoy his social media frenzy for now before the real campaign starts very soon.”   On whether Atiku Abubakar and the PDP will be a serious challenger for the APC in 2023, Ajaka reminded Nigerians that “PDP and Atiku are good customers to APC who cannot go beyond coming second at any election.  “Even that second position has been threatened with the recent result of the Ekiti governorship election recently,” Ajaka added.   He said, “The opposition party will make all the noises without facts, enjoy its propaganda for a while but Nigerian voters will eventually distinguish between PDP’s lies and APC’s record of achievements. At the end of the story our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will certainly emerge victorious in 2023.”