Nasarawa State House of Assembly has passed 13 bills into law and 11 resolutions between June 2021 and June 2022. The speaker of the House, Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, disclosed in a speech he gave to mark the end of third session of the sixth Assembly legislative year yesterday in Lafia, the state capital. Balarabe lauded members’ high sense of dedication and patriotism for discharging their duties in the year under review. “Honourable members, let me note with profound sense of satisfaction that within the past 12 months, you have discharged your duties with a high sense of dedication and patriotism. The speaker assured the people of the state to provide a broad-base leadership by striving to surpass the achievements of past assemblies. Abdullahi promised to carry along the legislators and other stakeholders in the discharge of his duties. He lauded Governor Abdullahi Sule for the rehabilitation of the hallowed chambers of the state House of Assembly. The Speaker assured the staff members of the assembly that issues relating to their welfare and working condition would continue to receive the necessary attention. Balarabe further explained that  the leadership of the assembly is working very hard to ensure that  casual workers engaged by the House would in no distance time be consider as   permanent and pensionable employment. The speaker urged members who lost out during the primaries not to lose hope, adding that their sacrifices which they have made would not go in vain. “I am constrained to observe the failure of some stakeholders in connivance with some faceless people in some of the constituencies to return some members as their candidates in APC in the forthcoming 2023 House of Assembly elections. “However, as we are all men of faith, it is Incumbent on us to accept what happened as the will of God, I will therefore urge those of us who lost the primaries not to lose hope as the sacrifices which they made will not go in vain. Earlier, the majority leader of the House, Umar Tanko Tunga, moved a motion for the House to proceed on six weeks recess beginning from today Wednesday and resume on 20th July, 2022 to immediately embark on an oversight function for two weeks. The minority leader Hon Abel Yakubu Bala seconded the motion for the House to proceed on recess.