The ongoing upgrading of Dangote Sugar Refinery, Numan is expected to generate 32 megawatts of electricity from installation of new turbines and 2-high pressure boiler of 90 tonnes of stem per hour when completed. The company’s originally installed electricity capacity of 2-turbines generates 6.4 megawatts far below electricity requirements during peak of sugarcane harvest and production, usually in November. The benefits of the upgrading prospects of energy security improvement from ethanol derived from sugarcane, contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as well as strengthen the capacity of sugar production to 9,800 metric tonnes per day. Chief executive, DSR Numan, Mr Chinnaya Sylvain Judex, said the company introduced Sugarcane Outgrower Schemes Model where  space, land, seeds, fertilizer and other inputs made available to host community farmers as strategy to meet up target set out by the national sugar development masterplan. He explained, “ We are looking at varieties of yield in direct relations with NSDC in order to get best results. The model is targeted to enriched many farmers in the host communities five local governments, that surrounded the factory. “We have enough room for improvement in the Outgrower Scheme Program, which the gains goes to the communities. “The scheme is a win-win business, hoping the business would better living standard of people host communities”. Meanwhile, the company at it’s stakeholders engagements with 57 villages, 13 District Heads, 51 Village Heads urges for mutual synergy with the people where the company is located. Henceforth, he company promised to liaise with host community towards strengthening community relations. Closing communication gap with host community, the said, would curb the menace of vandalism and stealing of company’s property. Ismaila Mure, Youth Leader from Numan federation, lauded the company for providing free medical outreach, renovation of school and construction of road network as cooperate responsible to the people.