The Creative director for the Redefini Group, Simisola Hughes Obisesan has joined Creative Peers to redefine global advertising industry.
She is also expected to demonstrate her commitment and reposition global brands in an oversaturated market.
This, however, underscores her well-deserved selection as a jury member for the Cannes Lions, the most prestigious advertising festival in the world.
To this end, she joined a lineup of global experts from across creative industries to shortlist world-class creative work.
The creative director will be tasked with shortlisting entries that will go on to be judged and awarded on the global stage as a member of the jury during the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, to celebrate the best of creativity in brand communications.
Expressing her gratitude, Sinmisola stated: “it’s an honour to be appointed as a Cannes Lions Juror and to join my creative peers to define the global benchmark for creativity, and award the world class work that will make history and drive progress through creativity.”
CEO, Lions, Simon Cook emphasisedthe importance of the jurors expertise and selections, commenting that “The votes that are cast during this crucial stage of judging play a fundamental role in the judging process
He posited that this talented line-up of industry experts “will bring us one step closer to defining the creative benchmark on the global stage this June. We are extremely grateful to our jurors for their time, dedication and expertise.”
With over 15 years experience working with global and local brands, Sinmi has gained global recognition for her innate ability to create insightful, impactful, and edgy content that breaks through the clutter, resonating with today’s dynamic consumers. “On behalf of the Redefini Group, I congratulate Sinmi on a most meritorious achievement,” said chief executive officer (CEO) of the Redefini Group, Dr Tayo Oyedeji. “Sinmi consistently demonstrates mastery of creative communications, with utmost dedication and loyalty to her craft, consistently aweing clients and pushing the team forward. This selection as a juror for the prestigious Cannes Lions Festival underscores the quality of talent we boast as a group. We are proud of Sinmi and are certain, the Cannes Festival team is richer because of her,” Oyedeji said.