Access Bank said,  it will be rewarding its customers in the South-South and South-East region with millions of Naira and other attractive consolation prizes in the DiamondXtra regional draw. The Live draws, which have been scheduled to hold on June 29, 2022, in Owerri, Imo state, will feature mouthwatering cash prizes of N1 million, Business grant worth N1 million, Rent for a year worth N1 million, Educational grant of N500,000, and the star prize, Salary4life where a lucky customer will earn N100,000 every month for 20 years. Speaking to newsmen, group head, Consumer Banking, Access Bank, Adaeze Ume, explained that the motivation behind the regional draws in the new season of the reward scheme is the need to transform the lives of  More Nigerians  across the country. According to her, “to deliver on our promise to continually reward our customers for their loyalty and continued savings with our bank, we have decided to take the DiamondXtra reward scheme draws even closer to them. We intend to reward 38 lucky customers in the South-South, South- East region with juicy cash and consolation prizes in the Live draw taking place on June 29, 2022 in Owerri, Imo state. “By executing Live draws in the regional hubs across the country we believe this will aid consumer participation, drive credibility of this 14 year old reward scheme and boost our relationship with our dynamic and loyal retail customer base in the various LGAs and regions across the nation. “We continue to evolve and reflect on the various offers within the DiamondXtra reward programme, and engage our customers on what they would prefer to have as a reward.” She added that,  “so, this year, we introduced a new reward element to commemorate the launch of season 14 tagged ‘READY FOR MORE’; in line with the evolving economic climate that has seen more businesses commence trading and transactions online, we now offer digital skills training to 14,000 lucky customers as one of our prizes. “This skill will empower them and enable them boost their businesses and operations as entrepreneurs leveraging the Digital Marketing platforms.  This is our own little way to help build employers of labour instead of employees of labour.” DiamondXtra is an interest yielding hybrid account which allows deposit of both cash and third-party cheques. Hybrid means a combination of both savings and current account features. The DiamondXtra reward scheme was launched in 2008 and has been running till date. 