Former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, was affirmed the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) yesterday. LEADERSHIP reports that Kwankwanso was the only person that purchased the nomination and the expression of interest forms of the NNPP and was affirmed through a voice vote by delegates as their candidate at the party convention held at the Velodrome of the Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja. Meanwhile, a former chieftain of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Sen Ibrahim Shekarau, has tipped Kwankwanso to the 2023 presidential election Speaking during the convention yesterday in Abuja, Shekarau, a former governor of Kano State, said Nigerians were yearning for a purposeful leadership, which Kwankwanso will provide. Shekarau, who represents Kano Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly, said Kwankwanso will by the grace of God emerge the president in 2023. “Today is a great day in history, a memorable day. The beginning of a journey to enter a new nation of our dreams, a new nation of hope. “Our sincere plan is to better the lives of Nigerians. Nigerians have been waiting, we want to change the progress, change the sincerity of progress, change the lives of the youth for the better. We want to bring a leadership that will give a sense of belonging to every citizen,” he said.  Ado Ibrahim Wins YPP Presidential Ticket The Young Progressive Party (YPP) has elected Prince Ado Ibrahim as its presidential candidate. Ibrahim emerged at the convention of the party held in Palms Hotel, Abuja, yesterday. It was gathered that Ibrahim emerged after a voting process that commenced at about 3:40pm. At the end of voting, Mrs Ruby Chineye polled four votes while Ado Ibrahim had a total number of 66 votes to pick the presidential ticket of the party. LEADERSHIP reports that 72 delegates were accredited for the election who queued behind their favourite aspirant. Nwanyanwu Emerges ZLP Presidential Candidate Also, the national chairman of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Chief Dan Nwanyanwu, yesterday emerged as the party’s presidential candidate. This comes as the party also changed its name to Zenith Progressives Alliance (ZPA). These decisions were reached at the party’s national convention/presidential primary which was held yesterday in Abuja. The convention, which was attended by a delegation from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), had 185 party delegates from across the country in attendance. The national chairman, in his acceptance speech, promised to unite the country in three months, lamenting that the country had never been so divided. Nwanyanwu said, “When I become president, I will unite all sections of Nigeria. Nigeria is now so divided. I will also make use of traditional institutions and give them the role they should play in ensuring the unity of Nigeria.” He also added that he would send Nigerians back to work, adding that he would revive the moribund textile industries which will create work for thousands of workers. He said he has no baggage, adding that Nigerians are the easiest people to govern if they see the leader as transparent. “I will not steal Nigerians’ money. It is meant for Nigerians. During our presidency, after one year, we won’t be depending on oil. We will produce things in this country and create jobs. Nigerians here I am, send me. I won’t disappoint you,” he said. Adebayo Is SDP Presidential Flag Bearer Also, at its convention held at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, yesterday, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) picked Barr Adewole Adebayo as its presidential candidate. Adebayo, who is chairman of KAFTAN TV, contested the ticket against a young lady, Khadija Mobolanle Okunnu-Lamidi. Ahead of the convention, a female presidential aspirant, Dorathy Nuhu Aken’Ova had stepped down for Adebayo, saying the party zoned the presidential ticket to the South.