The Third Force Movement under the aegis of the National Consultative Forum (NCFront) yesterday raised over plot to distract the Labour Party (LP) on whose platform former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, emerged as presidential candidate. NCFRONT spokesperson, Dr Yunusa Tanko, in a statement urged the Nigerian people to stand together to condemn any move to scuttle the collective aspiration to make Nigeria a great nation. Tanko stated this against the backdrop of a convention held by a faction of the Labour Party led by Calistus Uju Okafor. The faction elected Chief Digar Ezenwafor as its presidential candidate in Abuja. Reacting however, Tanko said “the attention of the 3rd force movement is drawn to the attempt of anti-democratic forces targeted towards causing disharmony in our chosen political party, the labour party, selected to lead our collective struggle.” He faulted Okafor’s claim to the leadership of the labour party adding that he is no longer a member of the party. “In 2018 Mr Calistus Okafor was suspended for anti party activities and was expelled from the party in 2019 for conducting an illegal and unconstitutional convention which was disregarded by INEC in 2017. “The purported convention produced one Mr Mike Omotosho who died a couple of days ago to challenge the leadership of Alhaji AA Salam who we also lost to the cold hands of death last year. Alhaji AA Salam survived the onslaught where some of the assailants reconciled with Alhaji AA Salam and were reabsorbed back into the party in the spirit of reconciliation.” Tanko claimed that Okafor had confirmed that he is no longer a member of the party. “We urge all well meaning Nigerians to ignore this agent of undemocratic force with the strongest condemnation against the interest of the Nigerian state. “We reaffirm that Barr Julius Abure is the national chairman of the labour party with Peter Obi as the Presidential candidate as elected in Asaba Delta State, observed by INEC officials on the 30th of May 2022.