The crisis rocking the Imo State chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) assumed a new twist following the circulation of two different letters recognising two people as state chairman. The one dated June 15 purportedly signed by APC national secretary, Sen Iyiola Omisore directed that the Chief Dan Nwafor led executive be reinstated as directed by the Supreme Court in a recent verdict. While another letter is dated June 28 and signed by the South East national vice chairman, Dr Ijeoma Arodiogbu directed Dr Macdonald Ebere to totally disregard the purported letter of reinstatement of Nwafor led executives. Part of Omisore letter read “I write to convey the decision of the party to comply with the supreme court judgment on the case between APC vs Evans Enwerem and two others (SC/CV/884/2020) which ordered for the reinstatement of Daniel Nwafor led executives in Imo State. “You are by this development directed to take possession of the party Secretariat and as well take charge of all party activities in the state as the Chairman until the expiration of your tenure on 31st July 2022”. However, the South East vice chairman, Dr Arodiogbu discounted the first letter saying no such matter was discussed at the National Working Committee meeting to warrant the purported directive. Part of his letter read “That in this instance no such notice was brought to the attention of the NWC. It is hence believed that Chief Omisore would not deliberately dare to disregard such an important provision in the constitution of our great party. And if he did, he did so of his own accord. “The judgment so cited in the referred mischievous letter was not a conclusive judgment. Moreso, the supreme court did not give any directives for its enforcement. And you were not a party to the suit. “Please for emphasis, once again, do disregard that letter and go on with the job as the of the Imo State APC, for our election victory”. However the Dr Macdonald Ebere led executive is in charge of the party secretariat even as their publicity secretary, Cajethan Duke has dared Nwafor to come to the party office to assume office. In a statement, he maintained that “It is important to state that there was nothing in the majority judgement delivered by the Supreme Court on Friday,  May 27  2022 in the case between APC vs Evans Enwerem & 2 others SC/CV/884/2020 that confers any recognition and legitimacy on Dan Nwafor and his co-travellers. The judgement remains unambiguous and clear. It is however regrettable that while we focus on the post primary election management and party building ahead of the forthcoming general elections, one idle and grossly inconsistent gymnast is somewhere, obviously as a result of joblessness, has  decided to use our party to catch cruise and keep himself unproductively busy. But his pyrotechnics has acrobatically bounced against him and his vaulting ambition.