The primary election conducted by the 18 political parties in Nigeria came with big surprises. In the National Assembly, especially the red chamber, it will witness first timers when the 10 national assembly is inaugurated in 2023. About 40 percent of Senators will not return to the 10 assembly while about seven percent that lost out in the political parties that brought them to the 9th Senate are still battling in other political parties if they can have their ways back. In the recent primary, Senate President Ahmad Lawan is the first casualty. He went for a presidential ticket but lost. He is now fighting to see how he can collect the Yobe North APC Senatorial District ticket from Bashir Machina. The second principal officer who would have been casualty in the APC, Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North) has joined the PDP alongside Adamu Aliero of Kebbi Central. The minority leader of the Senate, Eyinnaya Abaribe, who should have been another casualty is now in APGA after a failed gubernatorial bid in the PDP. Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (APC, Niger North) who is also the deputy chief whip of the Senate has been denied the ticket. The ticket was given to his State Governor Sani Bello who is completing his two terms as governor, and also wants to be in the 10 Senate for the first time. Smart Adeyemi (APC, Kogi West) lost a return ticket, Ibrahim Oloriegbe (APC, Kwara Central) suffered the same fate. Senators Tolu Odebiyi (APC, Ogun West), Bulus Amos (APC, Gombe South), Bello Mandiya (APC, Katsina South), Barkiya Abdullahi (APC, Katsina Central), Olubunmi Adetunmbi (APC, Ekiti North) and Frank Ibezim (APC, Imo North) all lost out. George Sekibo (PDP, Rivers East), Gershom Basse  (PDP, Cross River South), Yusuf Yusuf (APC, Taraba Central), James Manager (PDP, Delta South), Ike Ekweremadu (Enugu West) may not return as a result of permutations that did not work in their favour. The Chairman Senate Committee on Customs, Excise and Tariff, Francis Alimikhena, is now in the PDP.  Godiya Akwashiki (APC, Nasarawa South) lost the ticket. Some lawmakers did not seek re-election. They are: Oluremi Tinubu (APC, Lagos Central) whose husband is the presidential candidate of the APC; Chukwuka Utazi (PDP, Enugu North) whose governor collected the ticket; the same thing with Emmanuel Orker-Jev (PDP, Benue North West). Oseni Yakubu (APC, Kogi Central) and Theodore Orji (PDP, Abia Central) both did not seek a return ticket. Just like Ahmad Lawan; Ajayi Boroffice and Ibikunle Amosun were interested in the presidential ticket. Some senators who won governorship tickets of their parties and won’t return to the 10 Senate are: Uba Sani (APC, Kaduna Central), Teslim Folarin (APC, Oyo Central), Sandy Onor (PDP, Cross River State), Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed (APC, Adamawa Central), Emmanuel Bwacha (APC, Taraba South) and Ovie Omo-Agege (APC, Delta Central). The fate of Senators: Sam Egwu and Ama Nnachi is not yet known since they are still battling for a return ticket. Consoling the lawmakers that lost in the Primaries, Senate president Ahmad Lawan called on the lawmakers to stay committed to the political system of their respective parties, not minding the outcome. The chamber suspended plenary on Wednesday, May 11, 2022, to enable lawmakers participate in the primaries of political parties. Only about half of the 109 Senators will make it to the 10 Assembly.   