Egg supply business also known as egg distribution business involves the sourcing and supplying of eggs to individuals, supermarkets, bakers, industries, companies and malls. It is a very lucrative business that anyone can start with by making massive profits from incessant supply. The business is not very capital intensive but very rewarding and largely profiting for small scale business owners and micro entrepreneur. Without any doubt, poultry business is one of the most lucrative business to start anywhere in Nigeria and Africa. And raring of chickens is king of the kind. One thing that makes poultry business so lucrative is egg. Because of its nutritional value and demand, supplying and distributions of eggs is a lucrative business with manifold profits in Nigeria and beyond. Anywhere in the world. The population of egg consumers is very large and wide in variety, ranging from everyday people to companies, hotels and many other establishments of which restaurants and events are part of it. Eggs are not just needed for eating alone. Eggs are also used in most baked snacks during manufacturing processes and to cap it up, Egg is the number one source of protein for humans. Research have proven that consumptions of eggs plays a big part in human health development. Market Potential The egg supply market in Nigeria is worth billions of Naira. And everyone who ventures into it has a good opportunity to tap into these market opportunity to earn a fortune. As a result of this, we can say venturing into egg production and distribution business is a great move to make. It is about the distribution process of eggs produced from poultry to the buyers daily, end users, consumers, bakers and manufacturer who use eggs for various depending on the need of the buyers. The supply of eggs will depend on demand. In most cases, customers usually order for eggs in hundreds, some thousands but it majorly depends on the financial capacity of the customers. However, it is important we discuss on the opportunity available in egg distribution business. Capital Profile Speaking with a Lagos-based Egg distributor, Mr. James Oyinloye explained the process involved in the business stating that egg distribution business involves modest and affordable capital to start the business. But averagely, with N300,000 you can start the business by purchasing crates and eggs to distribute to your buyers. He advised that it is expected for you to purchase a personal vehicle, truck or a Bus to enable the distribution process seamless and easy to convey to the market while affirming that to avoid risk in egg business, you need to be properly mobilized with your own vehicle or a rented one.. Oyinloye hinted that to avoid loses and breakage of the eggs, the distributor needs to facilitate a means of transportation for the eggs from the farms to the warehouse and to the point of sales. He further said, this would make the running cost of the business to cost at least N1.2M because you need to buy a small car to do the business to avoid delay in supply, unexpected loss and breaking of the eggs. Opportunities in Eggs Supply Eggs are known to be supplied to shops, supermarket, restaurants, bakeries and cosmetics industries on a daily basis, weekly or perhaps monthly in wholesale. With this, the business owner is given the opportunity to make immense income on a daily basis, weekly, and monthly. Almost everyone eats egg. In fact, nutritionist recommend eating one egg per day. Eggs are utilised in some companies for the purpose of industrial productions such as glue and some other products. In lieu to this, these industries need a constant supply of eggs for them to sustain their legacy and activities. Therefore, they order for large egg supplies, of which you can write proposals to them after setting up your poultry for egg production. Benefits Egg supply business guarantees non-stop income. It brings weekly and daily inflow of income. The advantages of egg supply business is that it does not cost a fortune to Start-up the business and it does not need any skills and qualification before entering into the market. It is easy to establish with modest income and subsequently earn you large returns when you have ready buyers waiting to purchase from you. Locate a poultry farm The first establishment is to locate a poultry farm for egg sourcing in large quantities. This would make the supply process easy for you to penetrate the egg market while building a niche of consumer base. Ensure to connect to more than one farm by locating a well organised farm where you can easily buy your eggs to avoid scarcity. Speak with them and have agreement on prices and all the details necessary. Acquire a vehicle Transporting eggs from one place to another in large quantity require you have a car. It can be a bus, a small car or truck. You could also work out a rental agreement with someone with a car or bus whenever you have supply to make. It is not advisable to use public transportation to move your eggs. Because eggs are very sensitive and could break when not handle with care. Set up a Storage Facility You may need to set up an adequate storage facility for the eggs. Once you move them from the farm, you need a place where you can keep them for distribution. Where customers can come and pick up or notice the availability of the market. Acquire Tools Once you have a place ready. You will need to acquire tools that will help you run your egg supply business. The most important tool are crates where you keep the egg. It is very important and essential. Without it the eggs might break and you lose. Identify Target Market          