Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB), Federal Capital Territory (FCT) chapter has called for more concerted efforts towards regulating the built environment in order to deal with quackery in the profession. The chairman of the institute, Omale Peter Ameh stated this at the 2022 conference/annual general meeting (AGM) of the chapter, held in Abuja, yesterday. He said quackery remains one of the major problems in the built environment despite all the efforts being carried out by the institute and other professional bodies to address the issue. “We have again called on the National Assembly to pass the National Building Code (NBC) into law. “While we continue to agitate for the passage of the National Building Code into law, we will continue our advocacy and public enlightenment activities. We wish to call on government and relevant stakeholders to rise up to the challenge and call on the national assembly to expedite action with the passage of the NBC into law and enforcing it as it remains a key-gate to the production of safe buildings in Nigeria and a solutions to this problem. “Professionals in the built environment will readily agree that one of the greatest challenges of the Nigerian built environment is the need for appropriate regulations, effective enforcement and the application of sanctions and punishments to erring offenders in the sector.  Until these are put in place and quacks are expelled from handling construction works, buildings may continue to collapse and the consequence of this is the continuous loss of valuable lives and property,” he said. Also speaking, the secretary general, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Prince Adebiyi Adetosoye said the topic of the event, “Curbing the menace of building collapse in Nigeria” is apt  considering the spate of collapse of buildings in the country. He commended the chapter of the NIOB for its commitment to interrogating the subject, stating that it is only when professionals are accorded their rightful patronage that the challenge of building collapse will be addressed.