Stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi State, including the minister of Education, Adamu Adamu; former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, and former governor of the state, Isa Yuguda, have raised the alarm over their outright exclusion from the power sharing arrangement in the party ahead of the national convention billed for Saturday, March 26. Unanimously, they rejected the decision of a some members of the party from the North-East geopolitical zone to micro-zone the seat of the deputy national chairman of the party to Borno State. The APC chieftains who rose from an emergency meeting in Abuja on Tuesday stated that they were not part of the decision to micro-zone the seat of the deputy national chairman to Borno. In a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, the aggrieved Bauchi APC members argued that there is no way Borno State would be placed far ahead of Bauchi State renowned as the traditional base of the APC in the North-East in both the 2015 and 2019 general elections. They also copied the chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning committee (CECPC) and Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni; the chairman, Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) and Kebbi State governor, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, and other leaders and stakeholders of the party. The party chieftains from Bauchi contended that Borno State already has more than enough of government patronage under the President Buhari administration than Bauchi which has carved a niche for itself as a traditional base of the APC after Kano State since the 2015 general election. The Bauchi APC stakeholders listed the national security adviser, Gen. Mohammed Mongonu, the group managing director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company, Mele Kyari, the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba Alkali, and the managing director of North-East Development Commission, Mohammed Goni Alkali as some of the slots Borno has occupied. They further noted that Borno and Yobe States had also produced national secretary and later the APC caretaker chairman in the past two years, among others positions. Accordingly, they implored the APC leadership to have a rethink and treat Bauchi State in a fair and just manner. They stated: “We thereby enjoined the APC leadership to as a matter of urgency reconsider the skewed party seats sharing arrangement and treat Bauchi State in a fair and just manner before the national convention of the party on Saturday. “There is the need to reinforce APC’s position in Bauchi State to enable the party to reclaim the state in the forthcoming general election. “Bauchi State has the highest votes in the North-east after Kano state and has consistently delivered the highest votes to the APC after Kano State, and this should not be toyed with.” Others who signed the letter were Mohammed A. Abubakar; minister of state for Trade and Investment, Hajiya Maryam Katagum; Sen Hallitu Dauda Jika; Sen Lawan Yahaya Gumau; Sen Amb Adamu Bulkachuwa; Hon Musa Palli; Hon Yakubu Shehu Abdullahi; Hon Abubakar kawu Faggo, among others.