According to a statement issued by the Foundation after the closing ceremony of the AIG Public Leaders Programme Class of 2021 held in Abuja recently, the 49 public servants were selected after a rigorous multistage process from across the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria, working in different government ministries, departments, and agencies. “Each participant was awarded a scholarship worth £11,500 each by the Foundation, to attend the programme delivered in partnership with the Blavatnik School of Government, University of Oxford,” the statement said. Chairman of the Foundation, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, in his welcome address discussed the Foundation’s mission of driving public sector transformation, and the emphasised the role that partnerships such as those with the Blavatnik School of Government and the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation played in actualising that mission. In his special address HRH Muhammadu Sanusi II, enjoined the programme graduates to use the learnings they received from the programme to drive change in their organisations. He stated that those who have the privilege of receiving world class training like that offered by the University of Oxford had a burden of responsibility to serve the nation and its people in integrity and purpose for national development. The Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan while giving a brief remark expressed her pleasure in witnessing the new crop of public sector leaders being developed through the AIG Public Leaders Programme. She commended the long-standing relationship between the Office of the Head of the Civil Service (OHCSF) and the Aig-Imoukhuede Foundation and thanked the Foundation for supporting the OHCSF’s reform initiatives focused onimproving public service delivery. Dr Emmanuel Meribole, Permanent Secretary, Service Policies and Strategies in OHCSF in his remarks appreciated the Aig-Imoukhuede Foundation for committing its resources to bringing the faculty of the University of Oxford to Nigeria to help build the capacity of the public sector workforce. He commended the graduands for the effort they invested in the programme and congratulated them on the projects that they have committed to working on in their organisations. The seven-week programme is run by the Foundation, in partnership with the Blavatnik School of Government, University of Oxford. Participants are taught a range of vital leadership skills, conceptual frameworks and practical tools that will empower them to be more effective as they lead their departments and organisations through the challenges of an increasingly complex and dynamic world. The Foundation is a public sector-focused philanthropic organisation founded by Aigboje and Ofovwe Aig-Imoukhuede to improve the lives of Africans through transformed public-service delivery and access to quality primary healthcare.