Director-general (DG) of the National Research Institute for Chemical Technology (NARICT), Zaria, Prof. Jeffrey Barminas has said chemical technology is crucial to the socioeconomic development of Nigeria. He asserted that the agency is pioneering chemical technology in the country. Barminas spoke yesterday yesterday during the Chemical Technology Special Day at the ongoing Science Technology and Innovation (STI) EXPO in Eagle Square, Abuja with the theme: “Sustaining Chemical Technology for National Economic Development.” The DG said the agency’s strength and visibility in the development of indigenous chemical technology would benefit Nigeria economically. In a statement issued by the press and public relations section of the Ministry of Science Technology and Innovation, he said Nigeria’s chemical industry is a vibrant one and is expected to grow rapidly, adding that “with the federal government focusing on moving away from the dominant oil industry, there is an estimated $120 million (N18 billion) annual market for agrochemicals alone in Nigeria.” Barminas said, “Our strength and visibility in the development of indigenous technologies in the chemical sector is an asset that could bring jobs and import substitution as well as attract significant inward investment in areas such as agro-processing, light manufacturing, energy, environment, health etc.” He told stakeholders present that the EXPO is an investor/inventor forum, enabling discussion on how best to deliver sustainable long-term growth for the Chemical Industry in the country. The NARICT boss said further that “Smart new strategies for designing, producing and using safer chemicals to minimize risks and prevent pollution is a priority as captured in our mandate.” Earlier in a goodwill message, the director-general of Nigerian Institute of Laboratory Science Technology (NILST), Prof. Yemi Gbadegesin, hailed the efforts of the Institute and promised to collaborate further, in order to achieve more results.