A political support group, ‘Got Your Back Nigeria’, has called on Nigerians to support the presidential bid of Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, against the clamouring for zoning of presidential office to a particular zone. The national co-ordinator of the group, Prof. Chris Mustapha Nwaokobia Jnr, said Governor Bello in today’s Nigeria is one public office-holder, who appears to wield unequalled spread of love and brotherhood across the country, just as what Nigerians had in the 1992/1993 political contestation that produced the late MKO Abiola phenomenon. Prof. Nwaokobia Jnr said Bello is interested in job creation and in the abolition of poverty as was the late Chief MKO Abiola of blessed memory. He quoted Frantz Fanon’s saying “Every generation must out of relative obscurity, discover its mission, fulfills it, or betrays it.” Part of the statement signed by Nwaokobia Jnr reads: “By Jove three decades after the 1993 phenomenon, the new beckons. The present phenomenon like the former is indiscriminate of ethnicity, region and religion. The present phenomenon is concerned about competency and capacity over zoning. The present phenomenon is the bastion of the Youth O’clock fervency, calling for a New Deal and a New Thinking. And the present phenomenon is the young man called Governor Yahaya Bello, GYB. “GYB is interested in job creation and in the abolition of poverty as was Chief MKO Abiola of blessed memory. “GYB stands for inclusiveness and gender parity in governance. He is an example of responsible and responsive leadership. And clearly represents the collective aspiration of the Nigerian people for a nation where justice, equity, fairness and Inclusiveness is prime. “He did it in the multi-religious, multi-lingual and multi-ethnic State of Kogi which is arguably the strategic microcosm of Nigeria, and he can replicate same in the macrocosm come 2023. “GYB is unarguably the bridge between the old and the young. As 2023 approaches, the very popular refrain Youth O’Clock which represents the trust of the moment and the urgency of now resonates because GYB has thrown his hat in the ring to lead the challenge for a new Nigeria come 2023. In GYB the Youths have found their own, they have elected to identify with their own, and they are ready, willing, and able to reset Nigeria for good. “The GYB phenomenon across the nation is the validation of the competency and the capacity of the young man who governs the Confluence State of Kogi. And Nigerians old and young are enamoured by the GYB magic. Do you know that in Kogi State, GYB has a cabinet that includes Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba, Kanuri et al. And do you know that since the creation of Kogi State, GYB though a Muslim in furtherance of the right and the freedom of worship built a Chapel for Christians to worship in the Government House like their Muslim counterparts? GYB is that broad thinking and urbane Bridge Builder that Nigeria needs come 2023. “Need I emphasize the fact that GYB is the best Governor in Nigeria in the area of Gender Equality and Youth Inclusiveness as recognized by a huge platform like the United Nations (UN Women)”. ‘Need I state that GYB has made Kogi State the safest State in the North and the second safest State in Nigeria? GYB is that consumate Chief Security Officer of his State who believes in the primacy of lives and property. GYB is competency and capacity combined.”