The party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) which meets today is expected to ratify the timetable which had been deliberated upon by the national caucus of the party since Monday. The national caucus meeting of the party had extended its meeting from Monday to today to properly harmonise views on the schedule. The extension of the caucus meeting had led to a postponement of the NEC meeting from yesterday to today. LEADERSHIP gathered that the NEC meeting was shifted to give party members time to review concerns raised by members of the party national caucus on the PDP timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 elections and the manifesto drafting committee. The agenda of the PDP National Caucus meeting were “timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 elections, the manifesto drafting committee and guideline for primary elections”. However, according to a party source, the caucus members agreed to a shift of the meetings in order to harmonise the various interests of stakeholders ahead of the party primaries. “The meetings had to be adjusted because caucus members requested at least a day to study the documents. We need to be sure that everyone is on the same page before we put it forward and we are also mindful of the timetable set by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). We don’t want to be caught off guard.” On details of the proposed party table, the source said, “Let’s be patient, we will unveil it soon and it will be something that will give aspirants, party members and Nigerians confidence in the party.” However, while briefing journalists at the end of the National Caucus meeting late on Monday night, national publicity secretary of PDP, Debo Ologunagba said, “After effective discussions, we have adjourned the meeting to Wednesday for the continuation of all the issues on the agenda. “On Wednesday at 10am the caucus meeting will hold, thereafter the BoT meeting and then the NEC meeting,” he said.  Tambuwal, Ayu Sue For Party Unity Meanwhile, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal and national chairman PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, have urged stakeholders to bury their differences, stressing that only a united party can win elections. Governors Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, have been at loggerheads over party leadership politics in Edo State. Tambuwal, who is also chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum, stated this while addressing the National Caucus of the party in Abuja on Monday night. Tambuwal said, “I congratulate members of our party for giving hope once again to the great people of this country. In the face of despondency, in the face of hopelessness, there are still rays of hope to turn PDP into the ruling party in Nigeria. “The bye-elections have signalled what we shall expect, to the glory of God, in a matter of few months. On this note, I appeal that we all, as leaders and members of this great party, must bury our differences and work together harmoniously. We must show the right signal to Nigerians, that, yes, we are united and ready to rescue this country.” Speaking earlier, Ayu urged party leaders to resolve all issues through the party’s internal mechanism. The former Senate President said, “One of our missions is to ensure that we revive all the statutory organs of the party. This is to bring party leaders together, to have a close working relationship and try and resolve whatever problems we have in the house”. Ayu, who assured that the party shall overcome its challenges,  said with the result of recent bye-elections and FCT council elections, the PDP is back to winning ways. He continued “Nigerians are happy to see that this party is the best organised party in this country. As the electoral act was signed and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) came up with their timetable, the National Working Committee (NWC) has been working round the clock, because there are timelines that we must make sure that we keep. “We are determined that we will keep strictly to the guidelines despite the short time that is available to us. We will keep to this timeline. We hope that the other party will continue to disintegrate. We have always told Nigerians, that APC is a contraption and not a political party.” Those who attended the caucus meeting include former Vice President and 2019 PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, former Vice President Namadi Sambo, immediate past Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki and former Senate President Ayim Pius Ayim. State governors in attendance include Samuel Ortom of Benue, Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia, Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Bala Mohammed of Bauchi, Nyesom Wike of Rivers, Godwin Obaseki of Edo and Darius Ishaku of Taraba.  