A yet to be identified ATM fraudster has duped a 21-year-old physically challenged orphan Dorcas Mseer of the Special School for Exceptional Children Aliade, Benue State of over N140,000 said to be meant for school fees, WAEC and NECO registrations. The physical challenged Mseer is currently appealing for N130, 500 to enable her register her exams and also pay school fees. Narrating her ordeal,  Mseer told our correspondent  that she went home to Ushongo local government area of Benue State for holidays and on her way back she stopped at Gboko and went to Union Bank to withdraw some money on ATM for her transport with her little sister who was leading her. According to her, “I went to the bank with my little sister that usually takes me around because I can’t see, and on trying to withdraw money a guy walked up to me and offered to help since he discovered I am blind, I agreed and gave him my ATM card and he withdrew all my money and changed my ATM and gave me another one.” She maintained that the said man after withdrawing all the money told her that the network was not good that she should wait for a while and after some minutes she asked her sister to call him to try again and the sister told her the man had left and that she immediately started receiving alert. “The money in my account was about N143,000 which I saved from selling all my farm produce to enable me register my WAEC and NECO, and as well pay my school fees, but this is where I find myself and I am appealing for help,” she said. Miss Mseer disclosed that she lost her father in 2009 while her mother died in 2013 and that after her parents’ deaths she became blind and life became unbearable for her. “I am 21 years old, I am an orphan, and I have three siblings. I am the first, we lost all our parents and we are all girls and all my younger ones are married,” she added. Mseer is going round to appeal for help with the aid of a humanitarian worker Barrister Ataav Kume who told our correspondent that he came to know about the plight of Miss Mseer from a teacher in the school and he took interest and began to follow it up. 