New registrar of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN), Engr Adisa Ademola Bello, has resumed work. At its 172nd Ordinary Council meeting held on December 16, 2021, COREN appointed Bello as its registrar effective March 2022. Bello takes over from Engr Joseph Odigure who served as registrar of COREN from March 2019 to March 2022. According to statement signed by the head of public relations, Haruna Ojonungwa, until his appointment as the registrar of COREN, Engr Adisa Ademola Bello was a professor of mechanical engineering at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi. Bello attended the St. Mathew’s Anglican Secondary School, Kurra Falls and the Boys’ Secondary School, Gindiri, all in Plateau State. He obtained a Bachelor of Engineering degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi in 1989. He also obtained a Master of Engineering in Solid Mechanics and Doctor of Philosophy in Mechanical Engineering from the same Institution. Bello is a registered mechanical engineer and a fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Engineering (FAEng), The Nigerian Society of Engineers (FNSE), The Nigerian Institution of Mechanical Engineers (NIMechE), The Automotive and Locomotive Engineers Institute (AutoEI), The Solar Energy Society of Nigeria (SESN), and the Institute of Management Consultants (IMC) among others. He is a recipient of some awards including the overall second prize at the first National Competition on Design of process Equipment and Plants organised by the RMRDC, Abuja, Nigeria. His working career started at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi, as a Graduate Assistant in 1991 where he rose through the ranks to the present rank of Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the same university in 2010. He served on the Governing Council of ATBU, the Council of Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), and the Council of COREN. While on the COREN Council, he served as the chairman of education and training committee and chairman of the technical committee of the main organising committee in the 25th, 26th and 27th COREN Engineering Assemblies. 