This paper intends to approach this topic from the street meaning of the keywords, highlighting the reason why religious sites are being destroyed in Nigeria. It will also briefly look at the idea of Holy sites and its treatment from Islamic religious point of view and finally proffer solutions on how to protect the Holy sites inferring from Islamic perspective. Protection is a way of preserving a person or thing. Holy sites will now mean a place of worship by any group of people. Religious leaders would now mean those who are leading those religious groups while Community will be the generality of people and the place where those Holy sites are situated. Importance of Holy Sites Nigeria is one of the countries in the whole world where religion plays an important role in the lives of most people. The two main religion of Islam and Christianity and the African traditional religion (ATR) influence the life of at least 95% of Nigerian citizen according to PEW research. It means, all the religious groups would naturally have places of worship. I did not carry out any research on this, but I feel Nigeria has the highest number of Holy sites in the world considering the number of religious houses including non registered ones in the houses and even in shopping centers all over the towns and villages in the country. The Holy sites most of the time are the symbol of the religion. When a particular religion is mentioned, the picture of their place of worship is viewed in one’s mind. Most of the followers of a particular religion attach a lot of emotions to the place of worship, they believe when they are inside or around the house/site, they are close to the God/deity that they are worshipping. Their holy sites most of the time are the symbol of their God, whenever anybody does to that site affects them emotionally. When the follower of a particular religion talks about spiritual emotions, some of the time they mean their place of worship. When an adherent enters, he feels different, he feels he is around the deity/God he worships. They feel their prayers will be answered when they are in their holy sites faster and better in their holy sites or place of worship. The concept of worship to most religious people is mainly attached to their holy sites or religious houses. Holy sites most of the time are not only a place of religious gathering, it’s also a social center, most religionists find their place of worship a convenient place to socialize. Why destruction of Holy sites in Nigeria? The Islamic approach to the Holy sites Islam does not only recorded success in protecting holy sites in the early life; it also constitutionalizes protection of the holy sites both during peace and wartime. Islam seriously frown and criminalize destruction of holy sites and symbols. Islam made the protection of mosques, churches, synagogue, temples and any other holy sites a must at all the times. No wonder, almost everyone that present when the Holy prophet Muhammed (SAW) took over Makkah accepted Islam, Apart from prerogative of mercy that he employed to forgive all those who fought him and the Muslims, the way and manner at which he treated their holy site, now Kaabah. He respected the holy sites, he cleaned it and made it more spiritual, these convinced the people of Makkah at that time and attracted Islam to them. When the Islamic state was established in Medinah, the prophet did not only say it, he documented it. The prophet(SAW) was reported to have said “Indeed Najran and her allies are under the protection of God and the guarantee of the messenger of God. They are to be protected in their wealth, lives, lands and religion. This includes their priests, monks, those who are absent and others among them and their delegation and the like. They shall not be forced to change that (faith) which they are upon and no right of theirs is to be forfeited. No monk, priest or attendant among them should lose that which is in his possession be it plentiful or scarce, and no fear or anger will threaten them” (cited by Imam Abu Yusuf Hanafi in Al-Kharaj 78) During the reign of the second Khalipha of Islam 632AD – 634AD, Sayidina Abubakr As-Siddeeq , whenever any army left for a military expedition, he always give special instruction to the commanders of the Army:- Do not spread corruption in the earth and do not disobey orders; Do not drown or burn date-palm trees; Do not kill any animal, Do not cut down any fruit bearing trees; Do not demolish a church; Do not kill any children, old people or women, soon you shall come upon people who have secluded themselves in clusters, leave them to engage in that for those sake they have secluded themselves (Narrated by Imam Bayhaqi in sunan-al-kubra, Imam Malik in-muwatta) The divine command to consciously protect the holy sites is given in the Glorious Quran chapter 22 verse 40 where Allah says [They are] those who have been evicted from their homes without right – only because they say, “Our Lord is Allah.” And were it not that Allah checks the people, some by means of others, there would have been demolished monasteries, churches, synagogues, and mosques in which the name of Allah is much mentioned. And Allah will surely support those who support Him. Indeed, Allah is Powerful and Exalted in Might.” Roles of Religious leaders and communities in protecting holy sites: the Islamic perspective  Imam Fuad A. Adeyemi National Chief Imam Al-Habibiyyah Islamic Society