The fate of other aspirants vying for the remaining 21 National Working Committee (NWC) positions will be decided by about 7,584 delegates accredited to vote at the convention today. After a series of postponements, culminating in a leadership crisis that almost thwarted the process, all is set for the governing party to hold its national convention. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that until 7pm yesterday, the chairmanship aspirants who had rejected the consensus arrangement adopted by President Muhammadu Buhari and governors on the party’s platform which favoured Adamu were still insisting on an open contest at the convention. At a meeting held at the residence of the minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affair, George Akume, on Thursday, the aspirants had threatened to invoke sections 82(3) and 84(9) of the Electoral Act 2022 which provides that political parties must provide obtain written consent from aspirants before adopting consensus candidates. They are Saliu Mustapha, Senator Sani Musa, Senator Tanko Al-Makura, George Akume, Abdulaziz Yari and Mohammed Etsu. But yesterday evening, the aspirants resolved within themselves to concede to President Buhari’s preferred candidates against some APC governors who had insisted that they should present a candidate from among themselves and insist that he is their preferred choice according to the provisions of the electoral act. A source privy to the meeting told our correspondent last night that the aspirants narrowed down on Mustapha and Al-Makura as their preferred consensus candidate. “They (aspirants) later changed their mind when one of them reminded them that they could be pursuing a dead end in choosing their own consensus candidate. He told them that the governors who are instigating them to maintain their ground against President Buhari’s preferred candidate may ditch them at the last minute because they (governors) cannot face the president and say they abide by the aspirants’ decision”. After agreeing to step down for Adamu, Senator Al-Makura, a frontline aspirant for national chairman position, announced his decision to quit. Al-Makura told thousands of his supporters who gathered in his office in Jabi yesterday that he was out of the race preparatory to the convention today. He said his decision to quit was personal and was not done under duress. He noted that while the other five aspirants stepped agreed down for him knowing he would have won the race, he decided to quit for some obvious reasons best known to him. The former Nasarawa governor stated that all the other five aspirants agreed to front him as their consensus candidate, which would have been announced at the venue, but he decided to eat the humble pie. “If I go into the battle field, I will defeat my opponents but that is not the issue. It is about President Muhammadu Buhari who is my leader”, he said. He thanked all his supporters who came from far and near to give him support. Similarly, Muhammad Saidu Etsu who is the youngest among the aspirants announced his decision to quit the chairmanship race. In a letter announcing his decision to withdraw from the race, he said his decision was informed by he resolve to give the APC a laudable voice as a more formidable force ahead of 2023. “I want to use this medium to appreciate the founding fathers of this party, the Progressive Governors Forum and the Caretaker Committee for providing a level playing field for us to air our voice and contribute our quota, respectively. “I am impressed with the progress that the party has made over the past eight years on some of the key goals articulated in Nigeria’s constitution: placing the country in much readiness for the global challenge and reforming the party’s best practices for the greater performance of the nation’s democracy. “As an aspirant in this race, I have visited around all the corners of this nation for consultations and support. I can unequivocally express that our party, the All Progressives Congress has the most robust yet well-disposed architectural plan and structure in Africa. “During my campaign season, one of my plans was to make and maintain the party supremacy as well as its internal democracy. In honour of these elements, the party’s decision-making system and my allegiance to Mr President, I have decided to step down from my ambition as the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress. This decision is to give our party a laudable voice and give the party a more formidable force ahead of 2023. “Hitherto, I am calling on all my teeming supporters who have remained my spine come rain, come shine including the more than 30 million registered APC youths to join us in this crusade to ensure that the party has come to stay and let us join hands so that we can push the nation and the party forward”, he stated. Party’s Unity List Ready, Consensus Remains Our Number 1 Option – Governor Sule Meanwhile, chairman of the media and publicity sub-committee of the APC convention and mgovernor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule, yesterday declared that the unity list was for the convention ready, stressing that consensus remains the party’s number one option on how candidates should emerge. Sule, who expressed confidence that the consensus deal would work out, said the president met with the governors and other critical stakeholders to ensure party leaders are on the same page. The governor who stated this at a world press conference on the convention also said only political appointees who are not statutory delegates will be allowed to participate at the convention. He said, “Before you go into the convention, our first choice is always consensus. And we’re still on that first choice. However, democracy demands, even our (APC) Constitution demands and the constitution of Nigeria demands that if that doesn’t work, we’ll go ahead and look at the other options. But right now, that remains our option. Number one.” On the issue of political appointees participating at the convention, he said, “If you have a former president as a political appointee, if you have a former senator as a political appointee, these are already automatic delegates. So, let’s not confuse the two just because being an appointee doesn’t necessarily take you out of being a delegate, because our delegates are classified, clearly. “So, most of the list that we submitted, you know, if you are talking of the ones who have submitted now, we don’t have commissioners, we don’t have advisors, unless somebody particularly was a former this or former that. In that case, just being an appointee doesn’t completely exclude such a person, you know, from being a delegate.” Noting that the unity list would be ready, he said it was essential to the consensus arrangement. “If you are talking of consensus, you must have a unity list because that’s the whole essence of consensus. You know, if you’re having consensus, you’re going to have people who have agreed; aspirants who have agreed, stakeholders who have agreed, and also the constituency that have agreed, and in that case, that name automatically will be adopted. And that’s just the meaning of the unity list. That’s how unity list are going to be put together.” He reiterated that all those who have agreed on consensus out of respect for the leadership of the party would have their money refunded to them.  PDP Ask Court To Stop Convention Meanwhile, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday asked a Federal High Court in Abuja to declare the APC national convention unconstitutional and illegal. The PDP is also seeking an order of the court de-registering the APC as a political party having failed to meet the requirements of sections 222(a), 223(b) and 225 of the 1999 Constitution. The party further prayed the court for an order of perpetual injunction restraining the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC) from recognising, communicating with, dealing with or having any business whatsoever with the APC as a registered political party. In a suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/ 389 2022, and dated March 25, 2022,  the PDP listed the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC), the All Progressives Congress(APC), the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee(CECPC) and the Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee as defendants. In the suit filed by its counsel, Samuel Irabor, the plaintiff said by a certified true copy of INEC’s list of APC’s current Exco, the party is being run by a 13 members Exco which is below the constitutional stipulations in Section 223 of the 1999 constitution that the Exco or Governing body of a political party must be drawn from 2/3 of the 36 states of Nigeria which is mathematically 24. The PDP is urging the court to declare all the prior acts of the Mai Mala Buni led caretaker committee leading to the institution of the suit as well as all subsequent acts, including the convention of March 26 as null and void and proceed further to order a de-registration of the APC by INEC in line with Section 225A of the 1999 constitution. In the originating summons brought pursuant to order 3, rules 6 of the Federal High Court Rules, the party urged the court to determine “whether upon a calm consideration of section 223(2)(b) of the 1999 Constitution, the leadership of the APC (2nd defendants) can be made up of only 13 members as presently constituted by the chairman of the CECPC and forwarded/registered with the 1st defendant (INEC) and if the answer is in the negative, whether the APC has any valid leadership so called, forwarded /registered with INEC in compliance with section 223(1) of the 1999 constitution and whether any act done by the said leadership is valid and founded in law. “If the answer to the 2nd and 3rd legs of the issue in the above paragraph is further in the negative, whether the APC is not liable to be de-registered as a political party pursuant to section 222(a), 223(2)(b) and 225(A) of the 1999 Constitution. The party prayed the court for a declaration that by the express provisions of section 223(2)(b) of the 1999 Constitution, the leadership of the APC cannot be made up of only 13 members as presently constituted by the chairman of the CECPC and forwarded /registered with INEC. It also sought for a declaration that all the prior actions and subsequent actions undertaken by the defendants are null void and of no effect. Fashola, Fayemi, Zulum, Score APC Govt High At Pre-convention Conference Meanwhile, Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi; his Borno State counterpart, Babagana Zulum; minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), and other eminent members of the APC yesterday scored the Buhari-led APC government high, saying the governing party cannot be compared to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). This is even as minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, also gave the achievements of the APC in the nation’s economy. They all spoke at the APC Pre-Convention Policy Conference organised by the party’s pre-convention sub-committee organized to discuss the current and future policy direction of the APC. On his part, Fashola said despite meager resources, the APC administration has taken deliberate policy decisions that have led to massive infrastructure projects development in Nigeria. The minister said massive infrastructure development is one thing that made the APC administration stand out and added that they were severe challenges that the party could overcome. He stated: “When we came in, 18 billion naira was our budget for the Ministry of Works for all Nigeria’s roads. That was less than the budget of my state in 2015. “This tells you the attitude of the preceding government towards infrastructure. So if you budget N18b for roads and a new government that has less, is budgeting 500 billion naira for the same roads, are those two parties the same? “We are confronting the significant problems of infrastructure—Lagos- Ibadan expressway, Second Niger Bridge, Boro -Bonny Apapa, Abuja-Kaduna, etc.” Ekiti State governor and co-chairman of the pre-convention conference committee, Fayemi, said the APC administration has differentiated itself from the previous administration, citing the educational development in his state. He stated: “That is why I told you that there is a massive difference between the PDP and APC. That’s why I hate to hear that all parties are the same. I can tell you with our own experience in Ekiti, and you may also see that in other States where we (APC) are in control. “Coming into office in 2018, talking specifically about Ekiti State, in fact, let me go back to 2014 when I left. Ekiti had the lowest out-of-school children percentage in the entire country. “But by the time I returned in 2018, the policies that handled us to achieve that were also policies that broadly speaking were what our government focused on at the national level: free and compulsory education, extended beyond the universal primary education program that starts at JSS3 to SS3. “It also ensures that our children can go to school within a 2km range from their place of residence and enforce the child right act in terms of children being found on the street trading at hours when they should be in school.” Also, co-chairman of the committee, Governor Babagana Zulum said insecurity in the North East has improved compared to what it was  before. He however noted that more efforts need to be made to get all displaced people by the insurgency resettled. Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, said the APC government’s social investment programme was yielding results as Nigeria has emerged the nation with the fastest growing social investment program in the world. Ahmed said Nigeria’s economy was now fully diversified because of different economic intervention strategies introduced by the Buhari-led APC government. “We have grown our revenues and moved away from dependency from oil revenues to non-oil. so while we started with oil revenue being about seventy percent of our budget now, we are at the point when non-oil revenues is five percent of our budget fully diversified today” she stated.