According to the electoral timetable released by the Independent National Electoral Commission, the process to elect a new president, governors, members of the National Assembly and state assemblies has already begun. Political parties are at liberty to elect their presidential flag bearers anytime from April 4, which is two weeks away. However, if what has transpired in the polity over the past two weeks is anything to go by, Nigeria could be heading towards an electoral process dominated by court cases and bombshell judgements. To say that recent judgements have been earthshaking in terms of the impact they will have on the electoral process and the outcome of the general election would be to understate things. Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State has presidential ambitions and he has told President Muhammadu Buhari and Nigerians. That, however, did not seem into account when Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on March 8, 2022, ordered the governor and his deputy, Dr. Kelechi Igwe, to vacate their offices for defecting from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Justice Ekwo said the defection from the PDP to the APC was illegal and unconstitutional. The judgment followed suits filed by the PDP and marked FHC/ABJ/CS/ 920/21 and FHC/ABJ/CS/ 1041/21, which sought the governor’s removal from office for abandoning the party that won him the mandate. The appeal could end either way, but coming so close to the governorship and presidential elections, how it ends may not be of any consequence. It is the effect the case will have on the election that really matters. Even more significant is the judgement that has basically rewritten the 2022 Electoral Act. The bone of contention is whether political appointees should resign their positions before party primaries as stipulated in the 2022 Electoral Act, or whether these appointees are covered by constitutional provision protecting/limiting the political participation of civil servants. A Federal High sitting in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, nullified Section 84 (12) of the Act and ordered the attorney-general of the federation, Abubakar Malami to delete it. Delivering judgment in a suit marked FHC/UM/CS/26/2022, yesterday, the court presided over by Justice Evelyn Anyadike declared that the said section of the amended Electoral Act was inconsistent with Sections 66(1)(f), 107(1)(f), 137(1)(f) and 182(1)(f) of the 1999 Constitution and was consequently unconstitutional, null, void and of no effect. The judgement has created very interesting reactions from a wide range of legal scholars, the National Assembly and stakeholders in the electoral process, for the sections of the constitution the judge based her judgment on related to civil servants, while the now deleted section of the Electoral Act was focused on political appointees. The suit, filed by Nduka Edede of the Action Alliance (AA), curiously had only Malami, who was also against the section of the law, as defendant, and sought the nullification of section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act. Interestingly, the National Assembly which enacted the law, and rejected the president’s request for its removal, was not joined in the suit, neither was the suit to the knowledge of the public before the ruling. Again, how this case ends, if appealed, may not really matter because by then the elections would have been over. A third case has to do with the convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress, on which an injunction had previously been placed. This apparently happened in ‘secret’, just like the case on the deletion of section 84 (12) of the Election Act, catching everyone, including lawmakers, unawares. A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory sitting at Kubwa, on Friday, however lifted the injunction, allowing the ruling party to go ahead with its national convention on March 26, 2022 as planned. Justice Bello Kawu vacated the order of interim injunction that barred the ruling party from proceeding with its planned convention. The judgement that may have a lasting impact on the outcome of the general elections is the sacking of 20 lawmakers of the Cross River State House of Assembly for defecting to the APC from PDP. All 20 lawmakers had followed Governor Ben Ayade to the APC after winning the mandate under the PDP. What it means for the governor is yet to be seen, but what is clear at present is that too many election cases are being decided by the courts rather than by voters. Also, the courts are being used not as a means of conflict resolution in political and legal disputes, but as means by bad faith actors to cause confusion and stunt our democratic growth. It is bad enough that so many cases are ending up in court, which have bogged down the electoral commission. The 2022 Electoral Act has clearly strengthened the powers of INEC to monitor activities of political parties and help to stop disputes from taking root. Now what is needed is stopping the courts from getting involved in certain categories of cases when the 360-day election notice has been served.