Less than 24 hours after Azman Air suspended flight service to Kaduna International Airport, another airline, Air Peace, has also suspended its operation to the airport due to insecurity. The suspension, according to the airlines, was due to insecurity and invasion of the airport premises by gunmen suspected to be bandits, terrorising the state. With the suspension of the two commercial airlines that were servicing the state, airlines will now fly to neighbouring states while passengers will now move by road to their various destinations. Recall that last weeked, terrorists, numbering about 200, atkacked Kaduna International Airport and killed a security guard attached to the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). The terrorists also allegedly prevented a Lagos-bound commercial aircraft from taking off. But, a combined detachment of the military and other security agents were, however, deployed to the airport to confront the terrorists. However, in reaction to the insecurity, on Monday night, Azman Air announced an indefinite suspension of its flights to Kaduna over insecurity. The statement reads in part, ‘’We understand security situation around the airport has been handled and normalcy has returned accordingly, but it is imperative for management to re-evaluate its operational procedures into the airport to ensure maximum security of equipment, staff and passengers are fully guaranteed.’’ According to the statement, “the bedrock of our operations is safety and we would continue to explore every option to aid its delivery to the highest standard.” Also, hours after Azman suspended flight operations to Kaduna International Airport, Air Peace also announced flight suspension, citing insecurity. Speaking to LEADERSHIP, the spokesman of the airline, Stanley Olisa, said the suspension was due to insecurity at the Kaduna Airport. He was, however, silent on when the flight operations will resume to the state. “Yes, Kaduna flights suspended due to insecurity,” he said in a short message sent to LEADERSHIP.