Statistics showed that transactions by local investors surpassed those by foreign investors by 74 per cent. The domestic investors pulled transactions of N282.07 billion, representing 87.23 per cent, while foreign investors transacted total equity worth of N41.31 billion, representing 12.77 per cent. The January edition of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) report on domestic and foreign portfolio participation in equities trading showed that total equities market transactions increased Year-to-Date as at January 31, 2022 by 104 per cent to N323.38 billion. Transactions also gushed by 39 per cent when compared to January 2021, partly due to a low base occasioned by the global pandemic. Both local investors and foreign portfolio investors registered increased transaction sizes. A further analysis of the total transactions executed between the January, 2022 and December 2021 revealed that total domestic transactions increased by 129.44 per cent from N122.94 billion in December to N282.07 billion in January 2022. Similarly, total foreign transactions increased by 16.96 per cent from N35.32 billion (about $81.20million) to N41.31 billion (about $99.30 million) between December 2021 and January 2022. Analysis of domestic transactions showed retail transactions increased by 153.21 per cent from N37.74 billion in December 2021 to N95.56 billion in January 2022, while the institutional composition of the domestic market increased by 118.91 per cent from N85.20 billion in December 2021 to N186.51 billion in January 2022. Further breakdown showed that domestic institutional investors generated the highest transaction value, followed by domestic retail investors, while foreign portfolio investors’ contribution remained the least. Meanwhile, the domestic market ended January on a positive note as the NGX All-Share Index rose 9.1 per cent amid the flurry of impressive earnings by major bellwethers and positive corporate actions. Capital market analysts noted that uncertainty in the yield environment and sustained foreign exchange (FX) illiquidity worsened foreign investors’ interest in the equities market. A stockbroker with Calyxt Securities Limited, Tunde Oyediran, said: “it is a good thing that domestic interest is building in the market; it is really positive. This is what we have been clamouring for, where the local investors will be the drivers of the market. With a level of activities demonstrated by the domestic participation will bring some sort of credibility and relative stability in the market.” Analyst at Cowry Asset Management Limited noted that foreign investors have remained on the side lines amid greater uncertainty over Nigeria’s foreign exchange rate outlook despite improved financial performance of quoted corporates. “The gradual decline in equities participation by foreign portfolio investors from 2018 to date which is due to several reasons, the least not being foreign exchange rate risk, saying that there is the additional challenge/threat of local investors actively seeking to build foreign portfolios for similar reasons in order to hedge their assets against probable further naira depreciation amid weakening foreign exchange earnings of the country. “We nevertheless note that local bourse would still provide bargain opportunities for the sophisticated investor,” they said. The managing director of Highcap Securities Limited, David Adonri, said the primary market for equities, which is tied to the fundamentals of the economy, has been comatose since 2015, while capital formation is paltry, due to weak macroeconomic fundamentals of the economy. According to him, the primary market is the essence of the capital market. It forms equity capital, which the Nigerian economy direly needs to create wealth and generate productive employment for youths. He argued that for issuers to approach the market to raise capital, there must be some reasonable level of recovery in the economy to sustain the current bull-run. Specifically, he charged the federal government to restrategise and address current macroeconomic concerns, promote issues of national development, tackle prevailing stock market volatility, restore the market to sustainable rebound, and attract new issues to the nation’s bourse. On equities market outlook, United Capital Plc said “The outlook for the equities market is broadly predicated on the direction of the yield environment in 2022. We expect the yield environment to trend higher as investors consider hawkish monetary policy and aggressive government borrowing. Thus, we expect to see sell pressures from domestic investors, particularly institutional investors. “On the other hand, we expect FPI activities to be muted given they have limited exposure to the Nigerian market which implies there will be no sell pressures from their segment. Also, we do not expect any buy interest from them particularly in a pre-election year. All that said, we note that the market landscape in Nigeria has evolved significantly over the past three years with the introduction of caps on daily price movement and the lack of presence of FPIs in the market. Thus, despite sell pressures expected during the year, we do not forsee a rout but rather mild bearish sentiments in 2022.” Aviation Fuel: