Vice-president, Yemi Osinbajo has said the newly inauguratedToyota-certified service centre in Oshodi, Lagos  stands out as a milestone achievement that would contribute immensely to the development of the auto industry and the nation’s economy. He described the  facility built by Toyota Nigeria Limited  along Apapa-Oshodi Expressway in Lagos, as a legacy project comprising a standard showroom, a collision repair centre, a general repair workshop with sophisticated equipment and a spare parts warehouse. Speaking at the commissioning, Osinbajo said:  “I must confess to being quite fascinated by the multiple resources and outcomes that this facility possesses and is designed to achieve. “It is not merely a service centre for providing quality after-sale service (although we are told that is one of the objectives for establishing it), it is actually developed as a teaching, research and resource centre, to provide dealers with world-class, practical hands-on training.” The VP said, the capacity building aspect of the facility tallied with a number of skill acquisition and empowerment schemes of the federal government for young Nigerians. “This year also, the Nigeria Jubilee Fellows Programme will begin. Every year under the programme, 20,000 graduates, after their youth service, will be given fully-paid internships that will last for 12 months in reputable private and public sector organisations across the country such as Toyota Nigeria Limited,” he stressed. He commended the TNL team led by its chairman, Chief Michael Ade Ojo for the visionary project. Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, said the establishment of the centre showed the commitment of Toyota Nigeria towards addressing the concerns of its consumers. “Today’s event is a brilliant manifestation of the enabling business environment created by this administration and their unparalleled leadership,” he said. He reiterated the ministry’s commitment to complementing the efforts of Toyota Nigeria in reviving the auto sector. Lagos state governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the secretary to the state government, Mrs. Folasade Jaji, said the establishment of the centre was a clear statement of the Toyota Nigeria’s commitment to the continuous growth of the company. “In addition, the modern technology and equipment available within the facility will boost the technical capability of the local technicians and impact positively on the drive to improve our capacity as a nation in science and technology,” the governor said. 