The last may not have been heard about the impasse between clearing agents and the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) over the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) valuation policy as their meeting ended in a deadlock. The clearing agents had at the meeting demanded 90-day suspension of the policy to allow clearance of trapped cargoes from the Port and Terminal Multiservice Limited (PTML) and Five Star Logistics Terminal. Recall that the NCS recently introduced VIN valuation policy that has generated controversy, which led to the shutdown of ports operations at Tin-Can Island Port complex. Speaking to journalists after the meeting on Tuesday, the assistant comptroller general of Customs, Modupe Aremu, disclosed that the Service will return to the drawing board to modify the complaints of the clearing agents. Aremu, a former customs area controller, PTML, said the VIN valuation policy has come to stay, thereby asking clearing agents to support it. She said, “Due to all the complaints that the agents gave today, we are going to go back to the drawing board to modify all the issues that they raised. We are going to modify their complaints and the modification will take care of the complaints of the clearing agents as regards VIN.” When asked if she was satisfied with the meeting with the clearing agents, the Customs boss explained that it was like a family meeting and will be encouraged going forward. “We talked and rubbed minds on a solution to this ongoing strike at the ports. The agents were actually trained ahead of the implementation of the VIN valuation. That was why we were not expecting this kind of response from them when we began the VIN implementation. “Due to all the complaints that the agents gave today, we are going to go back to the drawing board to modify all the issues that they raised. Hopefully, very soon, we will get back to them on the outcome of the modification. VIN has come to stay, it cannot be suspended,” she said. Also speaking, the deputy president, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Dr. Segun Musa, insisted that until Customs responds to the clearing agents’ request, the strike action at the ports will continue. In his words, “The Customs has given us a timeframe of Friday to get back to us, we will wait till Friday to hear from them. Until then, the strike continues. “They (Customs) said tomorrow (Wednesday) is their management meeting and that they will give us feedback on what they decide on Friday. So, till then, we will continue the strike. “If after Friday, their feedback does not meet our expectations, then we will continue the strike.” Also speaking, a member of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Prince Taiye Oyeniyi, said clearing agents have been on the issue of VIN valuation for over five years. “Let me quickly correct one impression, all freight forwarders are not against VIN valuation policy. What we are trying to say, is that the normal thing for valuation should be done. What are we saying? For instance, what is VIN valuation? This is to make sure that your chassis number of the vehicle are captured to tell the government through the Customs how much to pay. “But our argument now remains that a 15 year-old vehicle, for instance has a N2m worth of value, cost, insurance and freight. Under the normal settings internationally, there is depreciation of vehicle on a yearly basis. “What you sell is not what I sell. For instance, you cannot use the Customs value for vehicles or any consignments coming into the country. We are pleading with Customs to go back to the management. Let them give us the period of 90 days to clear the backlog of trapped vehicles,” Prince Oyeniyi stated.