Nigeria is in dire need of fresh investment in the oil and gas sector of the economy to enable it scale up production and meet its current quota from the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). The country has not benefitted from massive gains in the price of crude oil in recent times because of its persistent shortfall in production as a result lack of fresh investments into the sector following rapid divestments by International Oil Companies (IOCs). Nigeria’s OPEC quota is pegged at 1.8 million barrels per day (mbpd) but in the last few years, the country has struggled with out level of between 1.3mbpd and 1.4mbpd. With the quota likely to increase in the coming months as OPEC moves to plug the supply gap resulting from the sanctions on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, the country would be unable to maximize the current gain to improve its revenues unless fresh investments can be made. Minister of state, Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva attributed the inability of Nigeria to meet the  to lack of investments in the oil and gas sector of the economy. Speaking at a ministerial plenary, at the ongoing Ceraweek, in Houston, Texas, on Tuesday, Sylva said the speed with which international oil companies and other investors were withdrawing investments in hydrocarbon exploitation has contributed significantly to Nigeria’s inability to meet OPEC target. According to Sylva “the rate at which investments was taken away was too fast. Lack of investment in the oil and gas sector contributed to Nigeria’s ability to meet OPEC quota. We are not able to get the needed investments to develop the sector and that affected us”. He also cited security challenges as another major factor that contributed to the lack of significant growth of the sector in the country and added that the drive towards renewable energy by climate enthusiasts has discouraged funding for the sector. Sylva, however called for a change of attitude stressing that in decades to come hydrocarbon will continue to play a central role in meeting the energy needs of the world. The minister who is an advocate of gas as a transition fuel for Africa said although Nigeria was in full support of the energy transition, however noted that Nigeria and the African continent should be allowed to develop at its own pace to be able to meet the energy needs of the over 600 million people who have no access to any form of power in Africa. He said “there are about 600 million people in Africa without access to power and of that number the majority live in Nigeria. And of the over 900 million people without access to power in the world, the majority live in Africa. So how do we provide access to power for these people if you say we should not produce gas”? “We believe that gas is the way to go. We believe that gas is the way forward and the one access to power,” the minister said adding that for the energy transition programme to be taken seriously “We need to have an inclusive energy transition programme”. He continued, “yes, we believe in energy transition but we as Africans have our own peculiar problems and we are saying that our energy transition should be focused on gas to bridge the energy gap. This is what we have been saying. We need a just and equitable energy transition programme,” Sylva further stated. He maintained that Nigeria was not in any way against any transition programme but urged promoters of renewable energy as the only path to energy transition to give the less fortunate countries of the world the opportunity to achieve energy sufficiency before doing away with fossil fuel. “As Africans we are saying that we must be allowed to transit through gas. We cannot achieve one energy base load through renewable alone. The rest of the world must listen to us. We are happy that our point of view is been taken,” he said. – Ikechukwu Amaechi is the Editor-In-Chief of The Niche Newspaper, published by Acclaim Communications 