Okusaga gave the assertion at a media briefing held in Lagos while stating that, media buying agencies, PR and marketing communication industry should change industry business models with disruptive technologies to gain market shares and leapfrog growth. This, he said, will harness and expand the possibilities for the traditional media to play in the economy and reposition the vibrant nature of the Industry with technological driven marketing solutions. Marketing Technology (MATECH), according to him, will drive the possibility for the traditional media to rewrite the proprietary tools with technological driven marketing solutions to create possibility in such a way that has not been seen before, even as he assured that, the next big thing after FINTECH is the marketing technology. He said Fintech runs the economy today but the marketing technology will leapfrog  Mitech growth and change the landscape from traditional to digital platforms to create direct value at the bottom level for the vast number of consumers in the market. He cited flutterwave, paystack as one of the biggest players in the Fintech economy who are leapfrogging the growth of payment solutions with technologies while urging the tradional media to change dynamics and proliferate entry into disruptive technologies that will have exponential growth on the economy. He said: “the deficiencies are too much, the entire market size is 91 billion which is not up to the balance sheet size of the smallest bank in Nigeria while adding that the rise of technology has made some business models unadaptable.” Okusaga opined that the traditional media should speak digital and avoid the tokenistic approach of weak fundamentals while he said: “we are still in the early phase of our growth, nothing fundamental about us. We are not innovating to catch the future.” He argued that rather than bring in foreign media partners to make the space competitive and innovative, ‘we have shut them out with regulations to avoid them playing in our market space such that we now operate a closed market.’ Meanwhile, Coca-Cola Nigeria has announced that it has consolidated its public relations accounts to be managed by Precise Platforms. Commenting on the development, director, Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, said: “with the commencement of this new partnership with Precise Platforms, we are confident that our new team will continue to represent our interests in the most outstanding way and we remain optimistic that 2022 will be a truly rewarding year for both parties.” Okusaga, commented by saying: “we are delighted to earn this relationship with Coca-Cola Nigeria, a global leader in its segment. We are humbled by the valuable responsibility of lending expert perception minding support to the proven team at Coca-Cola, as it attests to the diligence we have been putting into our jobs over the years.”