A governorship aspirant under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State, Arc Bernard Yisa, has promised to run a government that would be anchored on service to humanity if elected in the 2023 general election. Arc. Yisa, who made the promise in continuation of his consultation tour to the people of Minda Intermediate area of the State, also averred that he will also boost the socio-economic
wellbeing of the Benue people. He said as a Benue son, who has observed keenly the leadership and development of the state, he had noticed a yawning gap that he can fill through good governance. According to him, “my plans of becoming the governor of the State is not to build a better life for myself, my family and all those around me, my ambition is to contribute to the growth and development of Benue State While promising to boost agriculture through mechanised farming, Arc. Yisa also reiterated his commitment to make use of the Environment Protection Act to turn around waste making Màkurdi, the Benue State an eyesore, into wealth to create employment opportunities for youths. The APC gubernatorial hopeful, who further lamented on the high level of deforestation and insecurity currently going on in the state, said if elected, he will ensure the protection of the echo system through forest reserves and as well implore all avenues to put an end to criminality in the State. “We need to go all out to stop the trend of indiscriminate falling of trees, if this is not tackled now, the state in the near future will become a desert,” he warned. In their separate remarks on behalf of Makurdi, Guma, Gwer and Gwer-West local government areas, Ormega Orti, Fidelis Adi, Elder Akange Chen and Erastus Ugema respectively described Yisa as a man capable of transforming the state in all ramifications given his wealth of experience. While the zonal woman leader, Christiana Tor, appealed to the governorship aspirant not to relegate women and youth to the background, declaring that they are also very critical stakeholders during electioneering campaigns.