Ogun state ministry of Environment and Nestlé Nigeria have partnered to address the water sustainability challenges in Ogun state. Access to clean water and improved sanitation facilities is a daily challenge for many Nigerians, as 60 million Nigerians, or 33 per cent of the population, do not have access to clean water. This contributes to high prevalence of waterborne diseases and impacts education, health and the national economy. Speaking at a stakeholders’ forum to address the water sustainability challenges in Ogun state, the deputy governor of Ogun state, Engr. Noimot Salako Oyedele said, water is vital for survival, adding that, it is the life blood of human existence and the economy, hence, proper management of this resource is crucial. Oyedele, who was represented by the senior special assistant to the governor, honorable Kola Salako,  said, World Water Day is a day in which the future of one of the most essential natural resources is explicitly reviewed for the good of the generations to come. The permanent secretary, Ogun state ministry of Environment, Engr. Razak Ojetola, commended Nestlé Nigeria for collaborating with the ministry on the maiden World Water Day celebration in the state and for the strides of the company around water sustainability. He emphasised the commitment of the Prince Dapo Abiodun led administration to the actualisation of access to clean water and sanitation for all in line with Sustainable Development Goal 6 and the sustainability of groundwater resources which is reflected in the establishment of the Ogun State Water Supply (Ground Water Quality Control) Regulations 2017.The MD/CEO, Nestlé Nigeria PLC, Wassim Elhusseini, said: “water is a shared and precious resource that we need to manage sustainably and conserve for everyone, today and for generations to come. The sustainability of shared water resources depends on all water users working together locally to address the shared water challenges, be it scarcity, quality or access.” Elhusseini, who was represented by the category and marketing manager, Nestlé Waters, Gloria Nwabuike, said: “at Nestlé, we are committed to responsible water resource management as we rely on water throughout our supply chains and operations. “We therefore recognize our role in helping to ensure access to safe water and sanitation in communities near our operations and will continue to invest in responsible water stewardship in our factories. Our approach to sustainable water management is in line with the globally recognized Water Stewardship framework – ‘the AWS standard’ ensuring water-related best practices in our operations.” Elhusseini said Nestlé Nigeria is committed to certify all its water sites to the AWS standard, adding tha, the Agbara site attained this status in 2021 and Abaji factory will be certified in 2022. On the partnership with the Ogun State ministry of Environment for this years’ World Water Day celebration, the CEO said, it is in line with the company’s commitment to work together with local and global stakeholders to