 The National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) is collaborating with DALOKS Technoserve, to build franchises for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria to promote their business brands in the country and the world. Speaking to reporters during a workshop tagged “Franchising and Small and Medium Enterprises”, in Abuja yesterday, the Director General of NOTAP, Dr. DanAzumi Mohammed Ibrahim said franchise will help Nigeria diversify its economy because there are a lot of opportunities for the youth. He said that NOTAP has made a survey about Nigerian cuisine, and identified those that can be transformed into franchises, which the government has standardized. “Nigeria has to diversify its economic base and there are lots of opportunities in franchising. You know the contribution of SMEs to the GDP and to the employment of youth generally in the country is high. So, across the country, we had to undertake what we called a survey on Nigeria cuisines. “These are foods that are all over the country and we have standardized them and we have identified those ones that we feel that we can transform into franchises. We have facilities that will project the Nigerian cuisines outside the country and that is another way of bringing in foreign exchange in the country. So, there are so many franchises that can come up within the nation and we can export them outside the country. “So, essentially we are diversifying from crude oil to non- oil sector and franchise is one of the critical projects that we have to encourage young talented Nigerians,” he said. He added that the workshop is to sensitise Nigerians to develop passion for a business adding that funding sources are available at the Central Bank of Nigeria and Development banks for those who have met the conditions. The Managing Director of DALOKS Technoserve Mr. Chuks Nwanodu told reporters that the collaboration with NOTAP gives opportunity to individual companies to showcase their capacity and also enable small businesses to grow.  He said the government through NOTAP is trying to encourage young Nigerian businesses to grow bigger and higher and spread their tentacles using their franchise, which they can sell to others while still retaining their foundational brands.  The CEO/Executive Secretary American Business Council, Margaret Olele in her presentation tagged “Franchise As Business Growth Accelerator” noted that small businesses can grow and add to the economic growth of the country through franchise.  She however, called on the government to have a clear franchising policy.