Although sanctions imposed by ECOWAS on countries where coups detat have taken place persist, there shall be no excuse for a prolonged transition back to democracy in those places including Mali, Guinea and Burkina Faso, according to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Prof. Osinbajo disclosed this in a chat with newsmen at the end of an Extraordinary Summit of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government held in Accra, Ghana on Friday. The vice president in a statement by his media aide Laolu Akande said: “The major issues are the extent of compliance in the countries where there have been coups detat, which are Mali, Burkina Faso and Guinea, in particular, Mali. “We received a report from the ECOWAS mediator for Mali, Former President Goodluck Jonathan and his report was that we are at a point where the Malian authorities want longer period of transition but obviously ECOWAS is insisting on a much shorter period for transition.” Speaking further on the outcome of deliberations at the meeting, the vice president said; “When the communique is issued it will reflect ECOWAS position which is that there is no excuse for long transition. And all that is required in the electoral process is to ensure that there should be free and fair elections. And there should be no extended period of transition.” Prof. Osinbajo added that the Heads of State and government are firm on the resolve that coups will not be tolerated and that it is completely undemocratic. A few people cannot impose their way on the majority of the people of a country no matter what their motive may be.” ECOWAS To Host First West Africa Peace, Security Forum He explained that the whole point of democracy is that each individual has a right to choose his or her leader. “I think that outrage has been well expressed by the authority of the Heads of State and by the people of the ECOWAS region that we are in a democracy and we are not going to go back.” The meeting chaired by President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana was attended besides the Nigerian vice president, by Patrice Talon, president of the Republic of Benin; Umaro Sissoco Embalo, president of the Republic of Guinea Bissau; Mohamed Bazoum, president of the Republic of Niger; Macky Sall, president of the Republic of Senegal, and Dr Isatou Touray, vice-president of the Republic of The Gambia, among others.