For the past few weeks, scarcity of Aviation Turbine Kerosene (ATK), also known as Jet A1 has disrupted air travel across the nation’s airports. The scarcity has also shot up airfare as tickets have hit the rooftops, above the reach of the middle class. Economy class tickets, which were, hitherto, sold for N25,000 now sell for at least N50,000, making air travel unaffordable and risky road travel only alternative for Nigerians,  especially, the middle-class who cannot afford exorbitant air fare. But, those who can still afford the tickets fare share harrowing experience as they suffered flight delays and in some extreme cases, cancellation. Speaking, a passenger, Chekwubechukwu Osinachi, said, “Airpeace should please find solution to the problem because this delay affect your passengers negatively. Imagine when I went to Lagos with your airline, I booked noon flight because my meeting was by 5pm and the flight left 7:45pm two hours after the meeting time,” he lamented. Another passenger, Patrick Mor, however, asked airlines to get fuel from neighbouring countries. “What of other countries they flew to? He continued, “can’t they get fuel from there? Atleast, amount of fuel taking them from Nigeria to their destination will be given with another extra. I believe each airline has a way of getting fuel in any country they landed. On his part, Egwuonu  Nnamdi, queried why an oil producing country will be importing refined oil, saying, traveling by road is another challenge due to scarcity of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS). “Don’t we have the raw materials to produce this thing here in Nigeria? Why is this country frustrating everybody. No one can travel by road anymore due to scarcity of PMS now, we can’t travel due to scarcity of Jet A1 as well.” Though, the National Assembly have tried to find a lasting solution to the crisis but, its still to no avail as the commodities keep on soaring. For instance, Jet A1 that sells for N190/ litre in February, 2022, now sells between N575 to N650, two weeks later depending on the airport, thereby, disrupting local travels across the country. Flights were also been delayed, and in some extreme cases cancelled, due to the non availability and high prices of the product across the country. However, airline operators warned of dare consequences if the tide continues unabated saying air travel may be grounded, economic activities disrupted if the prices are not controlled. Speaking, the vice chairman, Airlines Operators of Nigeria (AON), Allen Onyeama, said that if airlines were to continue flying, an average Nigerian will spend N120,000 on an economy ticket saying, the solution to the debacle is to allow operators be given license to import the fuel to make life easier for Nigerians. He said, “I have the mandate of every airline in this country to announce to you that if they (petroleum marketers), can’t come down from their rooftops, we have only three more days to be able to fly. We are not threatening this country. We have been subsiding what we have been doing. “The rate as at today is N630, N640 and N605. We have an aircraft going to Kano, it has about 7,000 litres of fuel in it, multiply it, sir by N630. The unit cost per seat is about N70,000. You have not talked about insurance that is very static. Nigerians pay heavy insurance premium because this country is stigmatized. “You have to insure abroad. It is a must because all the insurance companies in Nigeria, put together, cannot even pay for one aircraft. So, you have to go abroad to insure. “Yet the fuel cost, which is supposed to be about 30 to 40 percent in every clime, in Nigeria it about 70 percent even before this time. So, you can now see the mortality rate of airlines in this country. “They refused to answer your simple question. Whether you got forex from CBN or red market, how much is the unit cost of your acquisition so that we know if the airlines are cheating you or you are cheating the airlines, if you have formed a cartel to increase your prices overnight. “From what is happening, sir, if it continues this way, the least ticket will be about N120,000 for economy and we don’t want to do that. “We want to inform the house that we are demanding that we should be given license to import this fuel. If we can buy jets that cost hundreds of millions of dollars, we can afford to import this fuel. Let NNPC give us the right to import this fuel.” Stakeholders have, however, warned against the scarcity of Jet A1 , saying Nigeria cannot afford shutting down its aviation sector now,  over hike and scarcity. The chief executive officer, West Link Airlines, Captain Ibrahim Mshelia, called for deliberate government action in making the product readily available and in a reduced price saying, if Jet A1 is not available, no flight can depart any airports in the country. Mshelia, however, bemoaned Nigeria’s importation of refined fuel, especially, Jet A1, saying, the nation is at a stage where everything is shutting down.  “This is a very serious problem. We can not afford a nation without aviation, particularly a Nigerian nation. The earlier government make a deliberate policy to make foreign exchange available to all operators within 24 hours or a maximum of 48 hours after demand, the better. It is unfortunate, people who are making the policy, should allow those who are qualified to receive something, but, they have a way to smuggle illegal or unqualified people. “As it is now, since we no longer have Jet A1 and the refineries not working, there is hardly anything that we do not import to be able to do a flight, just one flight between Abuja and Lagos for example, except that we have manpower locally trained here, that is all, every other things are imported,” he lamented. “So, if Jet A1 is not available, no flight can depart. There is nothing you can do about it, there is no pilot who is sane and there is no insane pilot, to begin with, and there is no sane pilot who knows his fuel is not enough for the flight. it means, we know what is required for a flight. “So, we are actually at the stage where everything is shutting down in Nigeria. And, we can do something about it but, those who are in a position have chosen to or either I don’t know what it is, but they are not just doing it. Are the solutions there? Of course they are there. “So, until we can take care of these things and make forex available to airline operators, we are not going to see any better days. And, the Jet A1 thing, what is shocking is that we are the only nation on earth that has so much oil and we are importing oil. So, it takes about three years to build a refinery and Nigeria cannot build a refinery or repair it. On his part, the secretary general, Aviation Round Table Initiative (ARTI), Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), said the sector is heading towards a worst time in the commercial aviation than it was in 2010/2012. Ojikutu, warned that the stakeholders should listen to what commercial aviation is saying, even as he, called for fresh intervention from the federal government. He, however, said call by Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), to airlines to revert to old ticket rate will also be more disastrous for the sector. He said, “Except the FCCPC is planning with the airlines for government intervention funds, we are heading to a worst time in the commercial aviation than we were in 2010/2012. He who has ears should hear what the global economy and commercial aviation is saying to the stakeholders.” “I don’t think the FCCPC to ask airline to revert to old rate because it does not regulate the health or safety of the airlines operations. Wherever, the FCCPC derived that authority from should be checked alongside the safety regulations, maintenance regulations and the operational costs of the airlines. “Again, it does not make economic sense, to sell tickets at $100 rate over 20 years ago, when we were refining fuel for the same distance and today at $60 rate we are importing fuel. In the early 90s, rice was sold at N1,200 ($10) but, today, a bag of 50kg, goes for N26,000 or $50,” he said.