If anyone is still in doubt, the recent attack by terrorists on the Kaduna-Abuja Rail line, in particular, the bestiality of it all, which represents one in many of such dastardly acts, confirms that, indeed, Nigeria is at war. Unfortunately, these terrorists who have declared war on the state seem to be one step ahead of the nation’s security apparatus. When such horrendous criminality occurs, the security agencies resort to semantics and blame game in a matter that requires an appropriate response. The minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, in his reaction, confirmed that the attack was anticipated. What happened at the Kaduna airport earlier was a warning signal enough to trigger accelerated security measures to protect strategic infrastructure like the railway which had become the only safe means of transportation between the two major cities after the bandits made the highway a risky thoroughfare.   From the perspective of the minister’s response, it was obvious that there were intelligence reports that could have stopped the attack before it happened but which were not acted upon. As is wont with these criminals, in this case of the bombing of the Abuja -Kaduna railway tracks, they applied maximum brutality when they opened fire on the train. And as at the last count, over eight persons have been reported dead, many injured, and scores missing including whole families. Most of the survivors, who spoke with journalists, described their ordeal as “horrible”. Indeed, the railway, before now, had become a target for the terrorists. In our opinion, failure to be proactive in ways that could nip these incidents in the bud is as criminal as the attack by terrorists. We are inclined to compare this attack on the Kaduna-Abuja rail line 9/11 terrorist attack in America by Al Qaeda which changed the trajectory of the war against terrorism in the world. We hope that  the death of these innocent Nigerians will spur the security agencies in Nigeria to say thus far, no more. It is regrettable, in our view, that terrorists have made the roads, railways, and airports between Kaduna and Abuja so unsafe. Recently on this page, we called on the federal government to break the cycle of killings in Kaduna. Instead of abating, the situation is getting worse and what Nigerians get are feeble platitudinal responses that calm the nerves until the next attack and death of hapless citizens whose only crime is that they dared to go out in search of their daily bread. Recently also, bandits attacked several villages in Munya and parts of Paikoro local government areas of Niger State killing no fewer than 10 people and abducting a Catholic priest, Rev Leo Raphael Ozigi, and other members of his church. Kaduna Attack: Saraki Lists 5 Solutions To End Insecurity It was gathered that the bandits/terrorists launched several attacks Sunday evening in Munya and shifted base to Adunu area of Paikoro local government area of the state. Similarly, it was reported that the terrorists attacked Chibani, Mutun Daya Njita, Tsohon Kabula, and Jesso, abducting and killing the villagers. Gunmen were also said to have attacked a Police checkpoint in Daura, Katsina State, killing one police personnel. A credible source in the area said the terrorists wore veils (hijab) to disguise. Terrorists also attacked Kabo and Shako villages in Gurara local government area of Niger State, killing nine security operatives. The list of killings by these blood-thirsty terrorists is endless. It is gratifying that President Buhari has directed the immediate conclusion of all the processes for the implementation of the integrated security surveillance and monitoring solution for the Abuja to Kaduna railway line and that this be extended to cover the Lagos-Ibadan railway line. Additionally, the President charged the law enforcement chiefs to bring back all passengers kidnapped and ensure that each of the callous terrorists is hunted down and made to face justice for their heinous acts as no one or group should be allowed to make the country prostrate. President Buhari reiterated his earlier directive that the military should deal ruthlessly with terrorists. It is our hope that these directives will be sufficient to assuage the hurt the people feel in the face of this unchecked rampage by criminal elements. While this is on, it is pertinent to reiterate, that the country is at war and clinical measures ought to be applied to bring an end to this bloodletting. Therefore, we call on the federal government to declare a state of emergency on insecurity. It’s time to declare a full-scale war on the terrorists. All the military arsenal should be activated for this purpose. Of paramount importance is the deployment of intelligence gathering mechanisms. When such vital information is generated, it must be activated in a manner that will save the nation the kind of embarrassment the attack on Kaduna airport and the railway is.