All Poets Network of Nigeria (APNET) has called for federal government action on the National Endowment Funds for the Arts. The network of Nigerian poets made the call at the maiden edition of Nigeria Poetry Festival (NIPOFEST) on the occasion of the World Poetry Day, an international event marked annually on March 21, to celebrate linguistic diversity through poetic expressions and increasing opportunities for endangered languages to be heard. The group said government’s assent on the legislation establishing the Endowment fund will go far to address the challenges of funding plaguing Nigeria’s creative industry. Speaking at the event, a creatives’ panel featuring Iyanu Adebiyi, Jennifer George, Omole, Olumide Olaniyan, Obo Effanga, Diego Okenyodo, and Jerry Omo’ba addressed the role of poetry in engendering self-expression, mental and cathartic release and as a means to engage restive youths. However, for poetry to engender self-expression and engage en-masse Nigeria’s teeming youths, there is need for a pool of funds from which creatives will draw from to galvanize sought action and result. The idea of a National Endowment Fund for the Art requires government to deposit a large sum of money to support creatives with a financial institution for a considerable period of time. Over that period of time interest appreciates to a point that government can pull out the initial amount invested while the proceeds of the interests runs on to generate more money for the fund. Since its establishment in 1991 to support creativity and creatives for the promotion of cultural heritage and knowledge in Nigeria, the National Endowment Fund had been dead-on-arrival. In 2016, the present administration pledged to revive the fund. Four years later, the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed at a meeting of the African Union of ministers of Arts, Culture and Heritage announced the amendment of the act establishing the fund to better meet the demands of the creative sector. Creatives are still waiting on action on the act. Panelist, Olumide Olaniyan urged poets and other creatives to key into topical and policy issues in the nation as a means of highlighting poetry’s role in national building and discuss. “We should attach the above issues while pitching for the National Endowment Fund for the Art, and stress that through poetry and the arts Nigerians gain self-expression and restive youths are engaged and out of trouble.” Themed People & Verses, NIPOFEST witnessed poetry performances from pupils of Jewel Model Schools, Kubwa; The Mill Hill School (Abuja); and Nee Beacon International School, Lugbe, including poetic renditions to several participating poets at the event; which traversed myriads of issues from mental health, human rights, to corruption among others. 