Barely 48 hours to the national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) slated for Saturday, March 26, 2022, one of the contenders for the position of Deputy National Chairman (North) of the party, Hon. Yusuf Sheriff Modu, has opted for the position of Zonal Secretary (North-East). Sheriff Modu’s change of aspiration as contained in a statement by the Director of Media of his Campaign Council, Olufemi James Urrah, in Abuja, on Thursday, was sequel to pressures mounted on him by party stakeholders in the North-East zone. According to the statement, though the position of Deputy National Chairman (North) is micro-zoned to Borno State, where Sheriff Modu hails from, but party elders led by the State governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum, wanted another party loyalist to contest for the top position on a consensus template. The critical stakeholders of the party in Borno, the statement added, persuaded Modu Sherrif to go for Zonal Secretaryship of the party for North-East, which is also zoned to Borno State. Sheriff Modu, in his acceptance of the new arrangement as contained in the statement, said: “After due consultations with my party critical and non-critical stakeholders, party chairmen from the North-Eastern States, where I come from, who have been involved in micro-zoning negotiations with other States in the zone, I have, however, come out with the agreement reached among the States in the zone as follows; “Deputy National Chairman (North) now micro-zoned to my state, which is the only NWC position zoned to Borno State. As a result, my leaders advised me to opt for another position available to Borno within the zonal positions, because the NWC slot has been given to a serving Senator from my State considering the current scenario in the party and the country. “I have accordingly communicated with all my leaders, structures, supporters and well-wishers to yield to the advice of our leaders to take the position of secretary, North-East zone. “I appreciate my State Governor, HE Zulum, Senator Kassim Shetima, my APC State Chairman and all the North-East APC State Chairmen, and other stakeholders for their steadfast and unflinching support throughout the period of consultation and campaign for the position of Deputy National Chairman (North). “However, the very solid structure earlier set up for the position of Deputy National Chairman (North), has come to stay, to complement the effort of our great party APC ahead of 2023 general elections.”