The ongoing staff training undertaken by the Akwa Ibom State Ministry of Information and Strategy within and outside the shores of Nigeria, was in keeping with the human capacity development plank of the Governor Udom Emmanuel’s second term Completion Agenda. So far, staff have undergone training in Sign and Chinese Languages, Public Relations Certification programme as well as overseas Leadership Skills and Management programme in United Arab Emirates, all geared at workforce development and human capacity building as enshrined in the Human Capacity Development Agenda of the Governor Emmanuel-led administration. Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong, made this known on Tuesday while receiving staff of the Ministry who just returned from a staff training course in Dubai. Comrade Ememobong, who said the importance of staff training cannot be over emphasised, noted that it was in realisation of the necessity of workforce development that Governor Emmanuel had since assumption of office continued to train and retrain the workforce to sharpen their skills and enhance their knowledge for expertise and proficiency towards improved performance and maximum productivity. He said to this end, 360 youths of the State were sent to Israel for training in various agricultural enterprises, adding that in the same vein, seven staff of the Ministry were sent for training in Dubai to enable them have exposure on the 21st Century training methodology and exposure to new skills for favourable competition with contemporaries across the globe in efficient service delivery. He congratulated the staff for being worthy ambassadors of the Ministry and the State at large with good ethical and moral conduct throughout their stay in Dubai and urged them to reciprocate the kind gesture of the Ministry with the training sponsorship by bringing to bear, the lessons learnt in the discharge of their duties. Speaking, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Akparawa James Edet, expressed deep gratitude to God for the safe arrival of the staff from the UAE and appreciated the Commissioner for his “Can do” spirit, even when it looks bleak and impossible. Edet, therefore, prayed God to grant the Information Commissioner the strength and resources for more exploits, wishing him success throughout his sojourn in the Ministry and in all his future endeavours. In her remarks on behalf of the Dubai trainees of the Ministry, the Director of Administration and Supplies, Mrs. Tiuba Nduonofit, expressed gratitude to the Commissioner, for the opportunity granted them to be trained outside the shores of Nigeria, describing him as a proactive leader, full of milk of human kindness. Also speaking, the Director of Finance and Accounts, Mrs. Stella Akpan-Ekwere, thanked the Commissioner for his selfless service and prayed that God would reward him bountifully. The highpoint of the event was the presentation of certificates of completion of the training by the trainees to the Commissioner.