Mallam Kurfi holds a B.Sc. (Accounting), 2nd Class Upper, from Bayero University, Kano, in 1987, and M.Sc. (Accounting) from University of Lagos. He was a Council Member of The Nigerian Stock Exchange, a Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA) and a Fellow of Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (FCS). He is also an authorised Dealing Clerk of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. His working experience spans over twenty years (20) covering the public sector, oil and gas, financial services / stockbroking industry. He started his career as an Accountant with the ministry of Finance, Katsina, from where he was deployed to the State Ministry of Education. Later he joined African Petroleum Plc as an Internal Auditor and later moved to New Africa Merchant Bank Plc from where he was seconded to Newdevco Finance Services Company Limited. In the course of his career, he was exposed to various aspects of management, accounting, the money market and capital market. He left Newdevco to head the management team of APT Securities And Funds Limited as Managing Director/Chief Executive. He is also the Chairman of MTI Plc and MIMAC Resources Limited and also a Director in Urban Development Bank of Nigeria Plc, APT Pension Funds Managers Limited, Clayberg Limited and APT Bureau de Change Limited, among other companies. APT Securities and Funds Limited is a wholly owned Nigerian Company incorporated as a Limited liability company on June 10, 1991. The current owners acquired the company in 2001 and commenced operations in February 2003. The company is licensed by The Securities and Exchange Commission as an Issuing House and also a dealing Member of the Nigerian Exchange. The Company has Eight branches across the Nation. The company is engaged in the business of Financial Advisory, Securities Trading, and Investment Management Services. The company’s clientele base cuts across individuals, financial and corporate institutions. The firm’s reputation rests on the display of the highest standard of professionalism and technology drives in providing innovative solution to clientele needs coupled with diligent commitment to quality services. The company’s corporate culture and staff attitude to work guarantees easy access to information and effective response to clientele needs. The Shareholders fund of APT Securities and Funds Limited is in excess of N2.4 billion over and above the minimum amount required by the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC). The company’s vision to be among the leading stock-broking firms with high value added to all stakeholders is in order as it continues to provide clients with excellent services through hard-work, innovative stock-broking services and total commitment. The firm deploys modern technology while rendering its service by a team of highly skilled professionals, combined with standard ethical practice in a stimulating and motivating work environment. The firm is strict on customers’ confidentiality ensuring not reveal customers strategy or trade against their interest and always work to help them get the best possible price and bargain.