President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the linkage of the Lekki Deep Seaport to the railway network. The president, who stated this after inspecting the ongoing work at the port in Lagos on Tuesday, also commended the minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, for the massive work done. The president also directed the minister to consult and bring up a memorandum to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to link the facility with the railway network. In the course of the inspection, the President received firm assurances that the port, which has a concession period of 45 years and sits on a land area of 90 hectares, would be completed on schedule in September. Speaking on the reason for the president’s visit, the minister of Transportation, Amaechi, said: “when I was making the case for the president to come, some people wondered why he needed to come to the seaport, most people did not understand why. Do you see the huge difference between when we came two weeks ago and now? “There are two reasons why I asked the president to come: the first one is to publicise the seaport so that they will know that this government is building a seaport and the first seaport in Nigeria. The other ports you have in Nigeria are all river ports because they tilt off the sea. “The second reason was to put the heat on them (the contractors) and with that, we are almost ready. If not for the equipment, they can actually get this place ready before June but they said all the equipment are arriving by June and installation will take them till September and it can be commissioned by September. “You see the miracle of bringing a president to this place. That is why presidents must also inspect projects, that will hasten the process if there is money for completion.” On linking the port to the rail, the minister said: “We don’t have money. If they give us money, we will link it to the rail.” On the relocation of the community, he said: “They said there are about 5,000 inhabitants along the side that we want to acquire and we said everybody should make preparation to either relocate them or find a solution to their issue but you think relocation will be the best because if you do environmental studies, the implications are that you don’t just dislocate people from their natural environment, even though the law gives you the power to own the land, you must take into consideration those who live around the site. For me, I want to suggest that we have a conversation with the governor of Lagos State on what happens to acquire the land up to the community.”