The Rise of Igbinogun, a mix of valour, revenge, anger, art, and musical folklore, got Nollywood movie enthusiasts’ attention when it premiered in Lagos. The premiere was supported by entertainment platform, StarTimes, as part of its commitment to the growth of Nollywood and the celebration of quality productions. The premiere which held at Sky Cinemas, Ajah,Lagos had  Nollywood industry icons, movie critics and the media in attendance. With a rich feel of ancient African culture, Igbinogun is an epic tale of a young warrior who fights against injustice in her land while battling her own demons. As Igbinogun steals from the rich and helps the poor, she must watch out for the king and his guards as well as her own father. Ultimately, this is a story of a young woman embracing her destiny. Written and directed by Ideh Chukwuma Innocent, the movie features Enyinna Nwigwe, Blossom Chukwujekwu with supporting roles from Ego Nwosu, Tina Mba, Shaffy Bello, and Akin Lewis, the film is certainly entertaining with its plot twists and colourful casts like Damilare Kuku and Bella Salami. Igbinogun was produced by Tunde Aina and Innocent Chukwuma Ideh. Speaking at the private screening, Fared Jiang, Marketing lead, StarTimes Nigeria said, “StarTimes is proud to associate with the producers of Igbinogun. An outstanding project like this tells African stories from an African perspective. We say kudos to our COO, Tunde Aina, for setting standards on the quality of local folklore film. “Coincidentally, our Easter promotion has begun to delight our customers. Customers who renew their subscription for two months on a low bouquet will be upgraded to a higher bouquet to enjoy our premium local and international content for two months. “StarTimes has a wealth of content to keep families happy from popular international series like season 2 of Queen of Flow; kids channels like Toonami and Nickelodeon to bring your children happiness and growth; exciting sports content like La Liga, Bundesliga, etc; indigenous channel like Orisun for Yoruba; ST Dadinkowa for Hausa; Isimbindo for Igbo; and excellent Nollywood content on ST Nollywood Plus; in addition to top Bollywood content on StarplusStar LifeZee One and so on, to satisfy all your imagination of Bollywood.” “As a business, we are focused on providing affordable quality service to entertain the family. And as such, will keep making a deeper commitment to Nollywood,” Fared said. 