New executives of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by Prince Sunday Fagbemi were yesterday inaugurated in Ilorin, Kwara State. At the ceremony, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq said APC can only beat its own excellent record in the delivery of its campaign promises in basic education, healthcare, public funded-safety net programmes, gender mainstreaming and youths’ empowerment. AbdulRazaq said Kwarans have “resolved not to ever hand the reins of government to wandering wolves and their allies”. The governor said no true progressives will leave the party under which Kwara is fast regaining its lost glories, adding that whatever disagreements among brothers can always be resolved if those involved are committed to the growth of the state. “Today represents a new beginning for our party in Kwara State. I congratulate all members of the new state executive committee. Let me remind you that this position is a trust. You now carry the mandate of over 400,000 members of APC in Kwara State to lead us to another victory,” Abdulrazaq said. “You are coming on board at a crucial moment. No genuine progressive, whatever the disagreements, will sabotage the collective resolve of the people of Kwara State to solidify the victory of 2019 in 2023. “From basic education, healthcare delivery, provision of water, infrastructural development and access to the rural areas, prudent management of resources, gender inclusion and youths empowerment, safety net for the poor, and welfare of workers, the Otoge administration can only beat its own excellent record. We can do more. What is certain is that Kwara people will never again hand the reins of government to the wandering wolves and their allies. APC is the trusted vehicle to keep the victory of 2019 and no patriot will leave the party. “So, together with the government, you have a duty to mobilise the people of Kwara State on this just struggle to keep the till from those who perpetrated mindless pilfering of public properties and brought the state on its kneel. “We will continue to work on our aggrieved brothers to see beyond personal ambitions and sheath their swords. They are always welcome to the house we built together. Our differences are not irreconcilable if it is all about the development of Kwara State,” the governor added. Fagbemi, who performed the inauguration, admonished party faithful to make discipline their watchword, and ensure that they work for unity and victory of the party in the coming general elections. He also enjoined those aspiring for political offices to pursue their ambition with all sense of decorum and sportsmanship, adding that the party will continue to reconcile the aggrieved members and work as a team ahead of 2023 polls.