On Monday, the 28th of March 2022, armed persons attacked a Kaduna-bound train carrying hundreds of passengers. The Abuja-Kaduna train service was attacked as terrorists blew off the train, killing and injuring some passengers in the process and abducting several people. The train, which left Abuja at about 6 p.m., was attacked between Katari and Rijana. A few days before this, a group of about 200 terrorists, invaded Kaduna International Airport and killed a security guard attached to the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, NAMA. A few weeks ago, the entourage of Kebbi State deputy governor, Samaila Yombe was attacked by bandits along Kanya in Dangu Wasagu Local Government Area of the state. Sadly, about 19 security agents were reported to have lost their lives during the incident. A few days earlier, bandits had ambushed and killed 63 volunteer vigilante members on a Sunday morning in Sakaba Local Government Area of the state. Some of the wives of the slain soldiers in the entourage of the deputy governor of Kebbi state took their grief to the gates of the 223 Commanding Officer. Clad in black attires, they stormed his residence to protest the killing of their husbands by bandits. Watching the women in a video clip that was shared on social media, the visibly pain and frustration in their faces was unmissable. As if this wasn’t solemn enough, a few days after that incident in Katsina State, seven children were reportedly killed in a stampede of residents fleeing from bandits in Shimfida, Jibia Local Government Area. It was reported that the incident occurred a few hours after soldiers serving in a joint security task force were withdrawn from the community. The soldiers were stationed at Government Secondary School, Shimfida, about 27 Kilometres from Jibia town, the local council headquarters, until their withdrawal. The soldiers had been in town for about 8-years and their presence, it was said, provided the community a sense of protection from attacks by bandits. Thus, the residents of the community feared that the withdrawal of the soldiers had made them vulnerable to terrorist attacks. Their fears appeared to be confirmed when they heard gunshots in the surrounding hills. The stampede was triggered by the sounds of the gunshots as residence felt it was an attack by bandits. It was not until the dust had settled that they discovered that the bandits were only celebrating the withdrawal of the soldiers by shooting sporadically in the air. From Kaduna to Sokoto, to Zamfara, Katsina to Niger states, hundreds of communities have been sacked and deserted, while others have reportedly been occupied by bandits, from where they launch incessant attacks on other communities.  Hundreds of thousands of people have also been displaced, causing a humanitarian crisis that has rattled economic activities in the Northern parts of the country. Kaduna and Niger States, in particular, have become the epicenter of banditry activities with many communities in the state sacked by bandits. For a couple of years now, many communities in the States have become ghost communities following incessant attacks by bandits. Now the battle has been brought to commuters traveling via train in order to avoid being attacked by terrorists. Zamfara State on its part is becoming synonymous with horrific raids and kidnappings that have left scores of people dead and communities deserted, becoming shadows of their former selves. In Katsina State, Unofficial figures of deserted communities due to incessant attacks by bandits indicate that at least 216 towns, villages and hamlets have been sacked in the State. Many of the villages it has been reported are being used as hideouts by bandits. Many towns have also become safe entry and exit points for bandits who come from Zamfara State to launch attacks on Katsina. Sokoto State isn’t left out. Many communities within the eastern parts of the State have remained deserted over banditry attacks. Attacks on communities have also made it difficult for residents to return because of fear of further attacks. In some cases, residents say they have no home to return to as bandits have occupied their communities. Some of the residents who made the decision to return home were met with destruction and ruination of their homes and farms. Over the years, Nigeria has battled through various insecurity challenges that include the Niger Delta militancy, the Boko Haram menace, herder and farmer conflict and, most recently, banditry and intractable kidnappings in the Northern part of the country. The activities of bandits that have been largely unchecked have thus far pushed more communities into the hands of non-state actors, who continue to advance and occupy major towns across northern Nigeria’s massive land space. Tracing the root cause of banditry, many security experts and discerning Nigerians opine that we have bandits today partly because some politicians would contract, illegally sponsor and equip criminal minded people for the purpose of causing mayhem. In cases where some political interests of theirs are not protected and if it so happens that these interests become protected, these criminals will be left on their own with destructive arms at their disposal. The question remains, “what does one expect they will do with those arms?” Other causes of banditry that have also been given cuts across poverty, lack of education, unemployment among others. However, these shouldn’t be valid reasons in choosing banditry as an occupation. Sadly though, because of the monetary gains and remuneration, as well as the governments seemingly inability to bring these marauders to book have emboldened many and attractive to others. Hence, there is need for government to perhaps consider the much talked about state policing. There have been increasing calls for a holistic review of the nation’s security framework. Many people have highlighted that the centralized system of defense and policing has proven to be ineffective. Thus, community policing strategies should be adopted so that policing of a particular region would be the responsibility of the indigenous people of that region who have the knowledge of the region’s peculiar challenges, culture and topography. In addition, technology and forensic sciences should be adopted in ameliorating the security challenge that is prevalent in the North. Security agencies should leverage on several citizen database systems in the country like the BVN, national identity cards, voter cards, etcetera for information and employ CCTV operations and adopt forensics like fingerprint matching, facial recognition as well as DNA analysis so as to enhance speedy criminal recognition and effective persecution. As the country begins to be enmeshed in politicking and political activities ahead of the General Election next year, it is hoped that security is not relegated to the back burner. Adequate security measures should be adopted and ensured across the country towards tackling the high rate of insecurity. Unless this is done as quickly as possible, the 2023 elections would be significantly threatened, affecting the nation’s democratic progress. State governments in the North, in particular, must also develop a consistent approach to the situation with the full involvement of the communities. Finally, the government should ensure the speedy persecution of terrorism financiers to serve as deterrent. A couple of months ago, the government said the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) uncovered 96 financiers of terrorism, especially those backing Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP). Not much has been heard concerning their persecution. While naming and shaming may affect the persecutory process, the government needs to take prompt action against the terrorists and their sponsors. Taking in the events of yesterday on the Abuja-Kaduna train, the solutions for the security challenges plaguing northern states of Nigeria must be multipronged, immediate and inclusive of the most aggressive response. The only way to stop the events of the train attacks happening again is to apprehend the terrorists that attacked commuters and those who have continued to wreak havoc in our communities, All the terrorists involved in yesterday’s attack must be brought to book immediately and all the hostages rescued. …On insecurity, all Nigerians must unite and together affirm that terrorism has no place in our society. Government must recommit to defend and protect the basic freedoms denied by terrorists, which belong to all Nigerians in equal measure… because we truly need to see the end of this ‘Insecurity Rising.’   