The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) has suspended the chairman of its Lagos State chapter, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, a.k.a MC Oluomo, indefinitely. The national public relations officer of the union, Chukwudi Asogwa, confirmed the suspension on Thursday after the suspension letter went viral. The suspension letter was signed by NURTW’s General Secretary, Kabiru Yau, and dated March 9, 2022. In the letter, the MC Oluomo was suspended over alleged misconduct, insubordination, and inciting members of the state chapter against the national body of the Union. With the development, the NURTW directed Akinsanya to hand over to his deputy chairman and release all property belonging to the union in his possession. The letter reads, “This is to convey to you that in line with Article 42 section 5, subsection I, II, III, IV, V, and VIII of the union’s constitution, you have been placed on indefinite suspension from office as State Chairman of Lagos State Council of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) with effect from March 9th, 2021. “Your suspension is sequel to sustained acts of insubordination and gross misconduct coupled with your clandestine plans to instigate crisis and unleash mayhem on any branch or branches of the union in Lagos state that refuses to obey your order or instructions not to accept directives from the national headquarters of the Union. “Your orchestrated plan to attack branches that may disobey your orders aforesaid will ultimately endanger public peace and order in Lagos state. It is also very likely to threaten and/or affect the lives and property of the peace-loving people of Lagos state, particularly those doing their legitimate businesses within motor parks, hence the urgent need to take drastic actions against him. “It is on record that you were earlier issued with queries on 25th of February 2022 and 3rd of March, 2022 respectively in which you were directed to explain the circumstances surrounding your untoward actions and to also show cause why disciplinary actions should not be taken against you for such acts of insubordination. You bluntly neglected/refuse to respond to the second query, while your response to the first query was unsatisfactory. “In view of your suspension, you are hereby directed to hand over the mantle of leadership of the Lagos State Council to the State Deputy Chairman and also surrender all Union properties in your possession to the State Secretary of the Union forthwith.”