Presidential aspirant under the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) Barrister Adewole Adebayo has said that the party and other platforms working together will wrest power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 presidential election. According to Adebayo, Nigerian leaders deliberately ignore solutions to the country’s problem because of selfish interest. Speaking after he declared his interest to contest for the 2023 presidential election under the platform of the SDP,  Adewole, said he has confidence that with the new electoral act, his party and other platforms collaborating together will win the presidential election. “Nigeria has so many problems but no solutions. The leaders know the solutions but they have deliberately ignored them, allowing the masses to suffer. “The solutions are known but the leaders have been shying away from them. Nigeria requires leadership that is why we are contesting under the platform of the SDP to provide the desired leadership,” Adebayo said. He said he has been moving around the third force but that he has now settled in the SDP to contest the presidential election and win it for the people of Nigeria and ensure they have the required leadership. “I am in the SDP to win the presidential election for Nigerians. When that happens, Nigerians will see and experience quality leadership,” Adebayo said adding that SDP is the best platform for him and for Nigeria. He said SDP, combined with other alliance parties, using the new electoral act the president signed will win the election. “We are coming with fresh men and fresh ideas. The problem of Nigeria is not what we have but how to manage it. In the past, when the resources were managed well, the country had a lot of money,” Adebayo said adding that he will also protect the interest of women and youths. “Women are part of the country. I have brought my wife here. The problem of women are the same problem of the country. The women want jobs, the women want security, they want a good society and they want freedom. Everyone want that,” Adebayo said. While lamenting the fuel and electricity crisis, Adebayo said electricity can easily be generated. “You generate power in your house through solar and electric generator. Why can’t it work for the entire country? The politicians in power don’t want it to work. This administration has negative electricity generation,” he said.