Energy expert, Wood Mackenzie, said Seplat Energy’s move to acquire the entire share capital of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited (MPNU), a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, offers huge upside for oil as well as gas. In his recent insight, Mackenzie, who is a trusted intelligence provider that empowers decision-makers with unique insights on the world’s natural resources, said, in the energy transition era, both ExxonMobil and Seplat will be pleased with the deal. Mackenzie, who equally doubles as the leading research and consultancy business for the global energy, power and renewable, resurface, chemicals, metals and mining industry, said, because this deal is a corporate acquisition, NNPC has no rights to pre-empt a deal under the Joint Operating Agreement (JOA), which governs the JV, rather that ministerial consent would be the only hurdle remaining, ‘although nothing can be taken for granted.’ MPNU has a 40 per cent operated interest in a Joint Venture with NNPC (60per cent). The JV includes OMLs 67, 68, 70, 104, the Qua Iboe oil export terminal. MPNU also has a 51percent interest in the Bonny River NGL Recovery project. Seplat has agreed to pay $1,283 million plus a contingent consideration of up to $300 million. The effective date is 1 January 2021 and completion is expected in H2 2022, pending ministerial approval. Seplat’s debt financing of $825 million is fully committed by a syndicate of Nigerian and African banks, and energy and commodity traders. If it completes, the deal is expected be transformational for Seplat Energy. It is already the leading indigenous company in Nigeria, but this will triple its working interest production to over 140,000 boe/d. In total, Seplat will operate 15per cent of Nigerian oil production. Market observers believe the deal diversifies Seplat’s operations into shallow water, which is largely devoid of the thefts afflicting its onshore operations. Although this is Seplat’s first offshore acquisition, they said, it will acquire all of MPNU’s Nigerian staff, thus allaying any concerns about its operational capabilities. According to Mackenzie, “our equity-based valuation of MPNU – excluding the Qua Iboe terminal – is $870 million (discounted 10percent, January 2021, $50/bbl long-term). However, at $70/bbl, we value the company at $1.678billion. In the energy transition era, ExxonMobil will be pleased with this deal. But so will Seplat, as the deal offers huge upside for oil as well as gas. “Longer-term, it will look to develop access into the domestic market in line with government policy, while there is also scope for LNG too. An FLNG project at Yoho on OML 104 was already under discussion before the deal. That could now accelerate, while long-term supply to NLNG is another option.” ExxonMobil, it was learnt, has been planning to sell its JV business for years, and its exit is overdue, while the shallow water JV assets have long been non-core and are some of the highest-cost barrels in its global portfolio.. Although emissions were not a key driver for selling, the deal will help with its recently announced net-zero targets for scope 1 and 2 emissions. However, because this is a corporate acquisition, it was learnt that NNPC has no rights to pre-empt a deal under the Joint Operating Agreement (JOA), which governs the JV, meaning that, ministerial consent would be the only hurdle remaining, although nothing can be taken for granted. Although, Shell’s ongoing divestment of its subsidiary-SPDC, similarly rules out pre-emption, if NNPC wants to acquire that portfolio, then it will have to out-bid the competition and if successful in raising up to $5 billion with Afrexim Bank, it would have the firepower to do just that, and massively strengthen its position in the onshore delta.