Executive vice chairman of the agency Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna, said this yesterday while delivering his remarks during the ‘NASENI Day’ at the ongoing Science Technology and Innovation (STI) Expo which started in  Abuja on Monday with the theme “Sustaining National Economic Growth through Science Technology and Innovation”. The NASENI boss said the agency’s theme is “leveraging on science and engineering infrastructure for the sustenance of national economic growth”   focuses on the need to develop local capacity and capability for innovations leading to a manufacturing economy in Nigeria. Prof. Haruna and his entourage used the opportunity to tour the NASENI exhibition stand, where machines and other items made by indigenous inventors and innovators were on display. He said “the occasion gives  NASENI the  opportunity to showcase, in a special way, the technologies, products and services indigenously developed by the Agency to its stakeholders, Small and medium Enterprises(SMEs), entrepreneurs and the general public, with the aim of attracting investors and investment for commercialisation and mass production.” He lamented that Nigeria’s manufacturing sector which ought to be a major driver of its economy is suffering because of lack of engineering and other   social economic infrastructure, adding that the nation must invest in science and engineering infrastructure both in facilities and human capacity to lift the nation from the doldrums. “Nigeria must continuously invest in R&D in the areas of STI. The approach of NASENI is collaborative research and partnership with local and foreign counterparts and commercial concern to guarantee export and boost international trade in Nigerian products and services of research and development. “NASENI has been at the forefront of adopting Science and Engineering Infrastructure to turn ideas into goods and services with a view of ensuring that Nigeria leverages on   science and engineering infrastructure to enhance its growth through the commercialization of its research results. “NASENI is currently and consistently developing new designs and technologies to solve national problems, ‘’ he added. Chairman of the occasion, Kola Jamodu, who is an entrepreneur in the field of science technology and innovation, in his remarks, said that NASENI has helped to boost Government efforts to industrialize Nigeria by ensuring the availability of resources for machine production and others required for mass production. He noted that this will enhance Nigerian capacity, stressing that “NASENI is capable of delivering equipment that will meet international standards”. Engr.Masur Ahmed, who delivered the keynote address, called for consistent improvement in human capacity development, commitment to more funding as well as putting in place the right infrastructure.