The African continent has offered some incredible players during its history. Many of them have come from Nigeria. Whenever great players from this country are in the field, make sure to visit https://www.1xbet.ng/en/ in order to wager on them. One of the most important names to ever come from that part of the world is Nwankwo Kanu. He played professionally between 1992 and 2012. He started his career in Nigerian squad Iwuanyanwu Nationale. However, he would spend only one year playing football in his native country, as in 1993 he jumped into European football. Kanu had an incredible performance in the 1993 U-17 FIFA World Cup. In fact, he was one of the top goalscorers in the competition which was won precisely by Nigeria. The 1xBet website offers all kinds of wagers for these excellent youth competitions. Going to Europe Kanu’s performances in the 1993 U-17 FIFA World Cup didn’t go unnoticed. As it tends to happen, those competitions are full of representatives of different football teams from all over the world. You can make your live bets from 1xBet, which are available for the top football leagues from all across the world. Finally, prior to the beginning of the 1993-94 season in European football, Dutch squad Ajax officially announced the signing of the Nigerian player. He spent three seasons in total, and was a key player in the 1995 and 1996 UEFA Champions League finals where Ajax took part on. After spending those three seasons in the Netherlands, the player moved to other European sides, including: Prior to the beginning of the 1996-97 season Kanu was signed by Inter Milan. However, things became quite difficult for the player in Italy. The player was in the Nigerian Olympic team that participated in the 1996 games. When traveling to Italy after the competition, it was discovered that the player had a serious heart condition that could even threaten his career. Currently, from 1xBet you can make all your live bets on the best competitions from across the world. In 1999 Kanu gave his career a new opportunity by signing for Arsenal. Before the games of the Gunners begin, don’t forget to try the games at the http://1xbet.ng/en/casino website. The player was part of the “Invincible”, which were the Arsenal team who won the 2003-04 English Premier League completely undefeated. Kanu spent his last years of his career playing for West Bromwich Albion and Portsmouth. It should be noted that the player was also a key part of his National squad. In fact, he helped the Olympic team to win the gold medal in the 1996 games. The 1xBet casino offers great games to enjoy while waiting for the exciting Summer Olympics.