Ramos-Horta gave the charge yesterday while addressing participants at the virtual public presentation of a book authored by a Professor of Political Science and International Relations, Babafemi Badejo held yesterday at the Chrisland University, Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. The former president of the Asian country, who is a Nobel Laureate in Peace and Conflict Management asserted that only a sustained dialogue for mutual and progressive compromise will be in the interest of the people and government of Nigeria whom he noted are a leading “bunch on the African continent”. Speaking at the public book presentation titled: “Nigerians’ Views On National Turmoil: A Situational Quadruple Nexus Analysis”, Ramos-Horta emphasized that the country possesses all it takes to achieve significant progress and development. The Nobel Laureate emphasized that the book has reiterated that Nigeria must continue to ask questions on what ideas and solutions must be pursued for governance to serve its essence. The book, authored by Badejo, a former retired United Nations official and Head of Chrisland University’s Departments of Political Science and International Relations, was a participatory account of the crisis bedeviling Nigeria from attaining the desired level of nationhood. Relying on a UNESCO survey carried out in the year 2020, Badejo in the 168-pages research work chronicled some of the crisis militating against Nigeria to include leadership deficits and corruption, external dynamics, institutions and resources, which he said had since independence, culminated in lack of the needed peace and insecurity. Through what he described as Situational Quadruple Nexus (SQN) approach, Badejo however, advocated for a government’s re-direction of efforts in such a way that will focus on “ poverty character of citizens”, rather than what he described as “unprogressive and discriminatory constitution expression of federal character”. Badejo however, preferred solution to the challenges in what he called the four–pillar interlinkages of SQN approach of situational foundations, which included governance, external dynamics, institutions, and resources. The lead discussants, Prof. Olawale Albert, alongside other discussants unanimously submitted that corruption remained that bane on national development, noting that every country of the world is faced with this challenge in their respective journeys of nation building and development. They all however concurred that the book touched on very critical issues on the elusiveness of peace and security, failure in delivering with respect to development, human rights and actions for humanitarianism in Nigeria. Speaking with LEADERSHIP shortly after the public presentation of the book, the author, Badejo spoke of his expectations on some of the issues raised in the work, saying that he expected analysts to further proffer solutions on how to better ways of lives of Nigerians “I expect that a number of analysts will appreciate the importance of an approach to understanding the nature of conflicts and how to improve our life chances”. “Of course, that will imply that there will be continuous dialogue on refining because knowledge is a continuous knowledge; it doesn’t end in one book on how to push ideas forward in being able to achieve the necessary changes to improve the conditions of life in Nigeria, Africa and beyond. Yes, it is a continuous effort; other people will take it up and go beyond”.   