Stakeholders have called for the prioritisation of cyberspace in the hierarchy of critical infrastructure and the enactment of relevant legislations to support the protection of critical infrastructure. The call was made at the just concluded national stakeholders summit with the theme, “Protecting the Integrity of Nigeria’s Critical Infrastructures, Monuments and Business Assets,” in Abuja. In a communique signed by the convener, Dr Alfred Chiakor, the stakeholders advocated the adoption of traditional and modern approaches in dealing with security threats. The summit also suggested the socialisation of the population to the importance of security awareness to the extent of protecting the country’s critical infrastructure. The communique urged the government to harness expertise and operational knowledge of state and private institutions to support and enhance deterrence, threat mitigation and desired security outcomes. “Prioritisation of policing in ways that allows community indigenes/residents to take charge of their own security. The imperatives of engagement with host communities on the protection of critical infrastructure.  Creation of jobs for the population to deter anti-social and criminal behaviours. Nation-wide advocacy to create awareness on threats to critical national infrastructure. Emphasis on research and development in security matters. Moral re-armament of the national population,” the communique stated. The summit among other things identified a number of challenges affecting the country’s capacity to combat and overcome the emergent security threats to our national critical infrastructure. These include; “Perception that public assets are not anybody’s business; widespread corruption in our national system; absence of a Nigerian crisis management doctrine; lack of perspective planning on the part of state institutions; knee-jerk approach to solving obvious national problems;  non-institutionalisation of protection of the country’s critical infrastructure; the absence of early warning system in the form of risk analysis; digital poverty, the crippling effects of inter-agency rivalry in the security complex and so forth.” The summit also noted that Nigeria’s infrastructure has been threatened and systematically undermined given the records of attacks on the country’s infrastructure. “Oil and gas sector, that account for about 95 percent of the country’s foreign exchange earnings, has been hard hit by pipeline vandalisation, flaring and oil theft. “It noted for example that of the 85 million cyber-attacks in the continent in six months, Nigeria accounted for about 20 percent of them, thereby underlining the weight of threats to the country’s infrastructure, both hard and soft,” it said. 