The FCCPC has warned that it will take tougher approach to consumer credit with more clampdowns on poor business practices by erring and non-compliant digital lending businesses whose operational activities violate the Nigerian Data Protection Regulation, best practices and other extant laws. Executive vice chairman of the commission, Mr. Babatunde Irukera, had penultimate week, led a team of enforcement regulators to raid some illegal digital financial institutions operating on Opebi Road, Ikeja, Lagos. But speaking yesterday at a one-day summit for stakeholders and consumers of digital financial services in Nigeria, to mark the 2022 World Consumer Rights Day with the theme: “Fair Digital Finance,” in Abuja, Irukera, who was represented by the executive commissioner, Operations, FCCPC, Dr Adamu Ahmed Abdullahi, said more string operations will follow. Although he emphasised that the agency will adopt a more corrective than retributive approach, Irukera said FCCPC and its collaborating agencies were pursuing urgent enforcement action against already known violators while investigating others, as well as criminal prosecutions where applicable. Sadly, he noted that the illegal and unconventional methods of naming and shaming employed by online loan sharks to recover loans have often come with huge collateral damage to the integrity and character of persons who patronise them with the attendant privacy violation. Noting that the interest factor and the way it is also calculated is a gross violation of ethical principles of lending, he said, “Whoever has that experience, it is something that is pathetic. It started during the pandemic when most people were at home and these online lenders come with loans without collateral as if there are no strings attached and once you log unto their App, they have access to your contacts. “By the way, the interest on that loan is something that is out of the books, once you default, they will start sending messages to your contacts, before you know it, you are in very big trouble. That is why something really has to be done and that is what we are doing; trying to get that space regulated. “We are signing more MoUs with other regulatory agencies; some are already on board, more are joining. It is very important that we have an oversight of all these spaces. The airlines are not spared; they also have fraudsters selling their tickets online. The chairman of Air Peace is still alive; he has to go on his knees begging a fraudster, because the idiot was selling more ticket than the airline. AZMAN just went through that experience because their own App says Air AZMAN and a fraudster now opened AZMAN Air and was selling tickets. But I believe that with all these collaborations with the agencies, we are going to bell the cat.” He further said it is necessary that digital lending businesses must have clear dispute resolution channels and promptly resolve consumer’s complaints and document its processes, in addition to putting in place a legal compliance team to ensure that the business is building ethical culture and not just a box ticking culture.