 Concerned Awka-North stakeholders comprising mostly of  All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) members in Awka-North local government area of Anambra State, have stormed the residence of Hon. Ferdinand Onwuje, to appeal to him to shelve his plans to run for the House of Representatives seat of Awka North and South federal constituency, but rather vie for a seat in the State House of Assembly to represent Awka-North constituency. Hon. Onwuje is currently the Transition Committee chairman of Awka-North local government area. The group donated electoral campaign materials to Onwuje as well as expressed readiness to purchase both the House of Assembly Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms, and two vehicles to enable him contest for the 2023 State Assembly election. Speaking on behalf of Concerned Awka-North People cutting across different political divides but mostly APGA members from 10 communities in Awka-North, Hon. Chijioke Oliver Iferike described Hon. Onwuje as the most qualified for the job due to his sterling leadership qualities as a government appointee despite paucity of funds. He urged other potential contestants from the Awka North LGA to rather support Onwuje. Iferike also recalled that Awka-North has a zoning formula among its two political blocs, Awka North 1 and Awka North 2, which according to him, favours Awka-North 2 (Ofemili Bloc) where Onwuje hails from. Also speaking, Hon. Favour Nworah, a woman leader from Ebenebe and Coordinator, Awka-North Women Wing, and Chief Damain Nnaemena, SA Community Liaison to former Governor Willie Obiano, scored Onwuje high in terms of welfare, adding that he had used his wealth of experience and contacts to secure jobs and other opportunities for both people he knew and those he may not know. The team had earlier visited the Traditional Ruler of Ebenebe, HRH Igwe Christopher Emeka Nnaegbuna to seek his blessing and words of advice on their quest to convince his subject, the TC Chairman to join the House of Assembly race. Replying the visitors, Igwe Nnaegbuna, who is also the chairman, Awka-North Traditional Rulers Council, urged politicians from the Council Area to stand by truth, peace and equity, which according to him, would enable them to choose the right person for the job without rancour and overspending. Similarly, the Traditional Ruler of Awba-Ofemili, another community in the Ofemili bloc, HRH Igwe Ezekwesili Maduagwuna, advocated for politics without bitterness, urging people not to over demand from the contestants as it could force the eventual winner to amass wealth at the end to recoup their expenses. Responding, Hon. Ferdinand Onwuje, accepted to vie for the State House of Assembly election to a thunderous applause of his guests. He appealed for the support of all to realize the dream, which he said would help to change the face of Awka-North through quality legislations and attractions of government presence. He expressed gratitude to his guests for finding him worthy to contest for House of Assembly position against his interest to contest for Federal House of Representatives.