Nigeria’s Super Eagles and the Black Stars of Ghana will rekindle their fierce rivalry when they clash in the first leg of the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifying match at the Baba Yara Sports Stadium in Kumasi later this evening. The game, like the previous ones between the two sides, promises to be a pulsating encounter as Ghana vs Nigeria has become one of the most heated rivalries in African football and that will continue today. After failing to impress at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) tournament in Cameroon, Ghana are set to start a new era in their football. The black stars were criticised for their performance in Cameroon where they were eliminated in the group stage after failing to win a single match – including an embarrassing 2-3 reverse at the hands of Comoros. The embarrassing out in Cameroon led to the sacking of Milovan Rajevac and Otto Addo was appointed as the interim coach with a charge to lead the Black Stars back to the global showpiece, after missing out on qualification for the 2018 finals in Russia, for a fourth appearance (adding to 2006, 2010 and 2014). The Super Eagles after not impressive performance resulting in the sack of long-serving German techinal adviser, Gernot Rohr, regained their old swaggers under interim handler Austin Eguavoen during AFCON  2021 in Cameroon. But, after leading his men to three straight victories in the competition’s group stages, Eguavoen’s Eagles crashed out at the round of 16, and he will aim for redemption against an unpredictable Ghanaian side. The aggregate winner over two legs (the return game is set for the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja on Tuesday 29 March) will earn one of five African tickets to the Qatar World Cup in November and December later this year. Head to head record Ghana and Nigeria have faced each other a total of 56 times in all competitions (including friendlies), with Ghana recording 25 wins to Nigeria’s 12 and 19 matches ended in a draw. However, the Super Eagles have experienced greater success at the World Cup, accruing 21 points to Ghana’s 19 on football’s biggest stage. Nigeria also rank higher in the FIFA standings (32nd to 61st), and come into the match having reached the last 16 of AFCON 2021, while Ghana surprisingly finished last in their group, having failed to win a single game. Nigeria are seeking to qualify for their seventh World Cup appearance, having achieved a top result of ninth at the 1994 World Cup. Ghana have participated at three World Cup tournaments, reaching the quarter-final stage in 2010. CAF Approves 40, 000 Fans The Confederation of African Football (CAF) has approved Ghana’s request to admit 40,000 spectators for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 play-off first leg match against Nigeria at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi. This comes after the Ghana Football Association request to play the game in full capacity stadium following the laid-down rules by CAF. The GFA consequently advise all Ghanaians to obey all laid-down safety and security measures strictly to first and foremost have a successful match and also to avoid any sanctions from CAF and FIFA. 