Former minister of women affairs, Zainab Maina has lamented the continued marginalisation of women in Nigeria politics. She also said the recent action of the national assembly in the constitutional amendment is an indication that the marginalisation of women in politics will not end anytime soon. In her statement to celebrate the international woman’s day, Marina said “in Nigeria today, the female gender is the marginalized and excluded in politics and governance. Where then is the gender equality? Without gender equality there can be no sustainable tomorrow. As the stronger gender we perform far higher natural roles that men can ever perform. Yet, in politics and governance we are excluded. Why? This apparent marginalization of over half the Nigerian population most end. Therefore, today I cross my two hands across my heart to join other women all over the country to say ‘please break the bias’. “Perhaps, its time we the Nigerian women told our male counterparts that they cannot continue clapping with one hand and deceive themselves that they are making a sound. Nation building is a task that requires the contributions of all citizens regardless of their gender. To perpetually shut out a significant population of a country from political participation and governance processes is to deny the country full potentials for a sustainable tomorrow. “Women suffer deprivations in many spheres of our national life, yet when we ask for equity, we are pushed back by any entrenched patriarchy. We are not asking for equality because we want to take over the roles of our men, we are asking for gender equality because that is the only guarantee of a sustainable tomorrow. patriarchy has pinned us down as junior partners in a nation where equity demands equal participation in all spheres of life.  “The recent position taken by members of the national assembly in the constitutional amendment process has sent a bold signal to Nigerian women to wake up and organize. We have a duty to rise and challenge the status qua. Since politics is a game of numbers, we must come together and use our superior numbers to demand for a fairer deal.  “The minimum we should demand for in the 2023 election circle is the Vice President of the Federal republic of Nigeria and half the candidates in all elective positions. For us that is the only guarantee for a sustainable tomorrow. With our numbers we can do it.  “As I call on all Nigerian women to raise up to the challenge of ending the bias and enthroning equity in politics and governance, I challenge Nigerian men to see reason in ensuring equity and inclusion in our national life. This is indeed a task for all of us. Happy International Women’s Day 2022.”