With no incumbent president on the ballot ahead of the 2023 presidential election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) believes it has a better shot at returning to power at the centre. But such a prospect appears increasingly hazy in the face of the intense zoning debate among its party leaders. There is no gainsaying that the party is in a quandary as to how to resolve the issue of where to zone the presidential ticket of the party. The issue of North versus South contest for where the next president of the country should come from has been intense such that even regional socio-political organisation like Southern and Middle-belt leaders and the Northern Elders Forum have clashed over the matter. However, party leaders and stakeholders remain divided on the issue, time isn’t in their favour as the May 28 date for the national convention where the presidential candidate will emerge is fast approaching. Nevertheless, northern and southern candidates have been purchasing nomination and Expression of Interest forms while the eight governors of the party from the South joined their counterparts in the PDP from the same region to continuously demand that the presidential candidate come from their area, the five others from the North, as well as other stakeholders from their area, want the position to be open to all and sundry. So far, no less than six presidential aspirants have purchased the N40m forms albeit by proxy. Those who have picked the forms are former vice president Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki; Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal; Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed; former Senate President, Sen Anyim Pius Anyim; and Dele Momodu. Moreso, there are plans by some aspirants, especially from the North, to have a consensus candidate. Those moving for this arrangement are Saraki, North Central; Mohammed, North East; and Tambuwal, North West. Saraki, who has explained that the move is to ensure a unified front not just for the party but in the interest of Nigeria, dismissed claims that the consensus plan is to block some aspirants. Saraki at the second meeting with Tambuwal and Mohammed in Abuja (the first held in Bauchi) said “We’re not shutting anybody out. As we said we are going to see him. We’re going to see other aspirants. “They’re other aspirants in the party. This is not about shutting anybody out. It’s about uniting everybody with the interests of this country. And you will see when we begin to move around, but we’re not limited to anybody.” However the debate on zoning in PDP has remained contentious because it is enshrined in Article 7 of the party’s constitution which specifically states that it will adhere to the principle of zoning of elective offices between the various regions in the country. As far as the debate goes within the party, the group that wants zoning argues that after eight years of President Muhammadu Buhari from the North West, the next President of Nigeria should come from one of the three zones in the South. Proponents of this idea also argued that the PDP today has its safe states in the South South and South East and that it is only good for the party to reward the zone with the presidential ticket. Conversely, other stakeholders argue that the party should refrain from zoning to allow the best candidate to emerge. They note that what the party needs is a solid candidate who can win the election and defeat the APC, not a regional candidate. They believe that the party should first win the 2023 general elections before thinking of zoning key positions. They further argue that the last president produced by the party is a southerner and that between 1999 and 2023, the presidency would have stayed in the south for 14 years and in the north for just 10 years, meaning that if the next President comes to from the north, the region will still be doing catch up with the North. But there is a counterclaim to this notion. The pro-south advocates advance that Nigeria did not start in 1999, adding that between 1960 when the country gained independence and now, the north has produced leaders for more than 40 of the 61 post-independence years. Whichever way the argument swings, party chieftains like Chibuike Nwachukwu, believe that PDP must be mindful of the antics of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “One, the ruling party APC is not comfortable that while it is embroiled in a serious crisis about how to elect members of the national working committee, the PDP, as far back as last October had held a peaceful, rancour-free convention to elect its leadership. Thus, the APC will do anything to promote a crisis in the leading opposition party. “Incidentally, APC governors and leaders are the ones leading the chorus on the campaign for the southern presidency. Among the 17 southern governors championing the shift of the presidential powers to the south, nine of them are in the APC. Also, the APC as the ruling party was formed on the basis that the Southwest which aligned with the Northwest to win the 2015 elections for Buhari will produce his successor in 2023. Thus, it seems the APC leaders in the South were the ones coming out loudest on the issue of the Southern presidency. “The plot is to lure the PDP to also go the route of the South so that it will not have any advantage over the ruling party in the next presidential election,” he said. As it stands, APC seems poised to produce a candidate from the South to contest the 2023 presidential polls, a situation which, according to watchers of political events, has made the southern presidency a major discussion within the PDP. This scenario has raised the question about whether the APC may be canvassing the idea of zoning to lead PDP into a tight spot. Political commentator, Saliu Abubakar said, “It is also being argued that in 2015 when the APC should have allowed then President Goodluck Jonathan, a southerner to complete its term or pick a southerner to contest against him, it went to the North to select a presidential candidate to exploit the advantage over the then ruling party. Now, the APC is afraid the PDP might do the same and go to the north where it might have more support and also where it has solid, leading candidates who can defeat the ruling party. “It is for these reasons that the PDP must be careful not to make the political pitfall being designed and dug by the APC. The PDP leaders should rather open their eyes wide and make decisions that are in their best interest. “The party should avoid following the crowd. and adopting a strategy that will fail the party. The PDP, as an opposition party, must take whatever measure is needed to defeat the ruling party,” he said. For what it is worth, PDP national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu has declared that the party has a tradition of zoning party offices. He further urged party leaders to eschew bitterness while debating the contentious zoning of the party’s presidential ticket ahead of the 2023 election. Ayu stated this yesterday while inaugurating the 37 member committee over the zoning of the party’s committee. While the chairman of the committee is Governor Samuel Ortom, the deputy chairman is minority leader in the House of Representatives, Hon Ndudi Elumelu. The party had on Wednesday unveiled the 37 members which included Chief Bode George, Governor Samuel Ortom, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Sule Lamido among others. Addressing the committee, Ayu said “PDP has a history of rotating our offices. Anybody who doesn’t get it this time should wait after the tenure whoever will be our next president. We believe PDP is going to produce the next President once we start this journey this time. We will ensure it goes round. And it will go round with justice, fairness and the interests of Nigeria.” He urged the party leaders to discuss the matter dispassionately, adding that the main goal for the party is to remain united and win the presidency. “We talk, we don’t fight, we resolve issues. There is no issue that is too difficult or too important for the PDP to resolve the spirit of the party. But there is more. The need to have a candidate that is capable, competent, courageous, who can deliver on the promises of creating a functional country cannot be over-emphasised, other analysts have argued. For a party that was displaced as ruling party on account of perceived corruption, inability to fulfill campaign promises and ensure Nigerians get the real dividends of governance, the PDP, if desirous of returning to power would consider the interest of Nigeria and that of the party in making the decision. As much as debate on zoning rages, leaving the decision open isn’t a wrong option for PDP by any means as long as it enables the search for a candidate from all districts, all cities, all states, all regions, and across the country that will serve the interest of Nigerians. 