Nigeria’s Super Eagles are out of the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup finals after losing on away goals to West African arch rivals, Ghana. Nigeria who were seeking their 7th World Cup appearance were held to a 1-1 draw at the  Moshood Abiola National Stadium Abuja Tuesday’s night with the first leg of the playoff finished in a goalless draw in Kumasi last Friday, the away goal advantage secured the World Cup ticket for the Black Stars. An early goal from Thomas Partey condemned the Super Eagles to a 1-1 aggregate defeat in front of their home fans. Ghana took the lead through Arsenal man’s long-range shot which somehow found a way past Francis Uzoho in the 11th minute. Nigeria equalised after 22 minutes through a William Troost-Ekong penalty but the Black Stars held on and booked a place in Qatar later this year. It took VAR to call the centre referee’s attention to the monitor to give the penalty. Captain William Troost-Ekong stepped up and sent Joseph Wollacott the wrong way. It was a liftoff for the capacity stadium that had come to cheer the Eagles to Qatar. Coach Eguavoen made five changes to the team that played goalless in Kumasi with Ademola Lookman, Frank Onyeka, Oghenekaro Etebo, Calvin Bassey, and Emmanuel Dennis replaced Moses Simon, Kelechi Iheanacho, Innocent Bonke, Zaidu Sanusi, and Samuel Chukwueze in the starting line at the Moshood Abiola National that was jam-packed with expectant Nigerian fans. Osimhen thought he had given the Eagles a lead in the 34th minute but another VAR review showed the Napoli man had stepped offside just before Etebo released the ball. The second half was a ding-dong affair after Ghanaian coach, Otto Addo, made a triple substitution at the start of the half that showed the intent to preserve their advantage. Wolacott made a fantastic save from a Balogun header in the 71st minute as the Black Stars kept the Eagles at arm’s length. It will be Ghana’s fourth and first World Cup appearance having featured at the 2006, 2010 and 2014 edition respectively. They are making a return to the global football showpiece after missing out at the 2018 edition in Russia. Meanwhile, angry Nigerians not happy with the lackluster performance of their team attacked some of the facilities at the Moshood Abiola Stadium, venue of the match. The fans took to the field and attacked all available facilities including breaking and destroying the bench side of the Super Eagles. It took the intervention of security men who resulted in the shooting of tear gas to send away the angry fans but certainly not after tearing the nets and banners and any other thing within their reach. Many of the fans blame the match outcome on the Coach Austin Eguavon for inappropriate changes.