General manager of Golden Sugar Company, a subsidiary of FMN in Sunti, Niger State, Anlo Du Pisani, stated this when the company hosted its outgrowers from 29 communities at the company’s sugar estate. “I was really impressed by the results you achieved and I believe that if we continue like this, it will be the key for the success of the sugar industry for Nigeria and the company cannot do it on its own,” Pisani noted. He hinted that in the high crop season, the company employs about 5000 people at its current capacity and 75% of those employed are drawn from the host communities. He noted that this year was the highest year of planting and that up to 450 women up from 100 were employed daily by the company as planters. He further announced that the company was in the process of increasing its area under cultivation by 260 per cent this year and train more people as well as provide input support, extension services and irrigation to as many as would be interested in growing sugarcane in the community. He thanked the communities and Golden Sugar team for working together to attain the current success of the outgrower scheme, urging them to continue to explore the potential of doing more. “I cannot express my gratitude enough, thank you very much for the support, together we will record more successes and be assured that the company will always be there to support where we can, in the best way that we can. And the key to the future and the success of the sugar industry is to grow what we are busy with now,” he added. Earlier in his remarks, GSC Head of Agric, Mr Raj Kumar, noted that the company has continued to support and motivate the outgrowers since the scheme kicked off three years ago on 42 hectares of land, adding that the company will increase land under cultivation to 110 hectares this year. He noted that most developed countries started their industrialisation journeys from rural communities and the company will continue to bring more development to the rural communities, through facilitation of educational and health institutions, because development helps in industrialisation and jobs creation. High point of the event was the presentation of awards and cash gifts to various communities for their outstanding performances in two categories: plant crop and ratoon crop.
Under the plant crop category, Rabbandaeshi community came first while Koshaba community came 2nd and under the ratoon crop category, Ndanawun community came first while Rabakede community placed 2nd. Representative of the village head, Hon Yusuf Abdul, commended the company for the jobs created and the support given to the outgrowers, assuring that they were prepared to make more contributions to the growth of GSC, as it will mean the growth of the communities. Principal of Government Day Science School Jaagi, Usman Mohammed Jaagi, also a participant of the outgrower scheme, said the presence of the company in their community has helped to rekindle the hopes of a bright future for the students, as many of them have picked up interest in agriculture and hope to someday work for the company.