Every year, people all over the world are producing a shocking amount of waste, the majority of which are dumped in landfills. Only about 13 per cent of this waste is recycled on the global level. In line with its commitment to saving the environment by reducing high rates of plastic pollution and wastes, Rite Foods Limited has partnered with Sterling One Foundation on World Recycling Day 2022 to free Oniru Beach in the Eti-Osa Local Government area of Lagos State of bottles of Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET), plastics and solid waste. Rite Foods is Nigeria’s leading manufacturer of refreshing carbonated beverages, Bigi drinks, Fearless energy drink, Rite and Bigi sausages. The managing director, Rite Foods Limited, Seleem Adegunwa, restated his company’s commitment to a healthier and cleaner environment free of plastics and all forms of waste, in commemoration of the World Recycling Day 2022. According to him, “at Rite Foods Ltd, we are committed to reducing negative environmental impact, exchange knowledge and ideas on environmental growth while sharing expertise and experiences towards adapting to the ever-changing world.” The Global Recycling Day 2022 is themed “Recycling fraternity” – and focuses on those who put themselves on the frontline to collect waste and recycling during the multiple lockdowns in the Covid-19 era. It is observed every year on the 18th of March to recognize the importance of recycling as a resource, not waste. al Recycling Day is a day to raise awareness of the importance recycling plays in preserving our primary resources and securing the future of our planet. Convener, Sterling One Foundation, Olapeju Ibekwe, commended Rite Foods Limited for supporting the initiative and taking issues of environmental protection and sustainability seriously. “We must commend Rite Foods specially for being the very first sponsor to come on board this initiative to help make our environment safe and free of all forms of wastes and plastics,” she said at the event in Lagos. Also speaking at the event, Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Lagos State, Uzamat Akinbile Yussuf, urged all stakeholders to emulate Rite Foods Ltd by taking issues of environment seriously, while also imploring residents of the State to take responsibility in keeping their environment clean.