The approval to this effect is contained in a memo dated March 4, 2022. The memo stated that the affected workers, who are junior, senior and management staff, are part of the government transition plan from the now defunct Edo State Sports Council to the Edo State Sports Commission. The memo stated that while the affected staff would be immediately paid their one month in lieu of notice, their pension payment will commence in April 2022. The approved memo by the governor is titled, “Transition Plan for Staff of Edo State Sports Council to Edo State Sports Commission.” The memo reads, “Following the assessment for the establishment of the Edo State Sports Commission, we have completed the assessment of staff of the defunct Sports Council who possess the requisite skills sets to transit to the new Sports Commission. “In the foregoing, we have carefully reviewed the organisation structure for the new Sports Commission and assessed the existing staff of the defunct Council against the required competences required to operate in the Commission.” Meanwhile, the affected staff yesterday protested their sack by blocking all roads leading to the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City. The affected workers, comprising athletes, coaches and administrative staff, prevented vehicular movement within the stadium area, and prevented anyone from gaining entrance into the stadium. Some of the protesters who spoke with journalists noted that they were shocked to receive a circular of their disengagement from the Edo Civil Service and were asked to reapply as casual staff. One of the protesters, and former paralympian, Patience Igbiti, said, “I have been here for over 20 years as a permanent staff member and all of a sudden you disengaged me. “I have rejected jobs abroad to train people for my state, where do you now want me to start from? “The governor has not done well and this is not the right way to do this. We have people who are retiring soon, and you sack them. I am an international figure and I am a bread winner, do you want me to go to ring road and beg? God forbid!” Another affected staff member, Friday Aibangbe, a blind athlete, noted that, “I believe that the governor did not consider us at all. We worked for him and voted for him and fought for him, now he has disappointed us. “You sacked the cripple, you sacked the able, you sacked the blind. Look at somebody like me, where did the governor want me to go to? Do I go and start begging for money? Make them get a human face. It is very sad, it is very painful.” Addressing the protesters, the commission chairman, Yusuf Ali, promised to take their complaint to the government. 