To curtail Nigeria’s reliance on imports as well as reduce the deleterious effects of excessive importation, the government has developed an import substitution strategy that, on one hand, limits access to forex (which then makes it difficult to import) and on the other hand, supports the country’s manufacturing sector. Import substitution industrialisation is a trade and economic policy that advocates replacing foreign imports with domestic production. It is based on the premise that a country should attempt to reduce its foreign dependency through the local production of industrialised products. The current exchange rate crisis facing Nigeria stems from the country’s high import content. The reliance on imported items has led to a huge demand for foreign exchange and a depreciation of the naira through the years. The country’s external reserves, which have been used to defend the naira from spiraling out of control, have been on a free fall in recent years. This dire economic position has been further complicated by the significant drop in export revenues from crude oil, resulting in external reserves being depleted without being refilled. Third quarter (Q3), 2021 Foreign Trade Statistics by the National Bureau of Statistics showed that the value of Nigeria’s trade with the global community stood at N13.3 trillion between January and September 2021, with imports (N8.3 trillion) and exports (N5.1 trillion) accounting for 62 per cent and 38 per cent of total trade, respectively. Various import substitution strategies have been embarked upon by past administrations. Some of these include the 1972 Indigenization Decree, which led to the development of the petrochemical plants, the iron, steel, textile, breweries, agriculture and cottage industries, and the establishment of assembly plants that used imported processed materials in the automobile and cement industries. Though these attempts met some degrees of success, it is mainly the cement industry that has been able to fully actualise the benefits of import substitution. Nigerian cement companies not only meet local demand for cement, they also export cement to neighbouring African countries. Speaking at the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria(MAN) Annual Adeola Odutola Lecture in 2021, the president of the African Development Bank(AfDB), Akinwunmi Adesina, said: “while, for decades, the share of manufacturing in Nigeria’s GDP, has hovered around seven per cent, the nation has not been able to extricate itself from the comatose of its industrial manufacturing sector to unleash the fulness of its potential.” He added that Nigeria must have a greater ambition for its manufacturing sector by integrating and rapidly moving up global and regional value chains in areas of comparative advantage; by and by driving greater specialisation and competitiveness. To him, “a well-developed and policy-enabled manufacturing sector, with an export orientation will spur greater innovation, industrial policies for export market development, and structural transformation of the economy. Instead of being consumed with the conservation of foreign exchange, the focus would shift to expanding foreign exchange through enhanced export value diversification.” On his part, Dr Timi Olubiyi, an entrepreneurship and business management expert, said: “in line with the government’s diversification focus, import substitution measures have been implemented largely across agriculture and manufacturing in an attempt to replicate the success of the cement sector which is now reported as in excess of domestic consumption.” He stated that,  consequently, there have been duties imposed on certain agriculture commodities since 2012, specifically wheat, rice and sugar, and more recently, the bucket was expanded to the manufacturing and automotive sector. “The prohibition of certain import items from officially assessing FX is also being touted as an import substitution strategy although it has been forced by the current economic climate. Probably, the greatest constraint in the implementation of the import substitution strategy is the difficulty in the business environment in terms of trade and logistics infrastructure. “From the point of registering a business to electricity, road and rail infrastructure, warehousing and a simplified tax system, it just has to be easy to do business in Nigeria for import substitution to work successfully,” he said. The CEO of Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), Dr Muda Yusuf emphasised on a resource-based industrialisation, which can make Nigeria a competitive economy, saying that local value addition was key in driving industrialisation, which can improve Nigeria’s global competitiveness. The economist described Nigeria’s manufacturing sector as a highly import-dependent sector that makes it vulnerable to commodity price shocks. He decried the fact that the sector in almost a decade contributed less than 10 per cent to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the Nigerian economy. According to Yusuf, a shift from import substitution characterised by foreign exchange support for importing raw materials adversely affected the country’s manufacturing sector. Yusuf noted that it was time to ease the FX environment, liberalise FX inflows, reduce illiquidity in the FX market and tackle economic rent-seekers. He reiterated the need for the government to address critical issues like energy, logistics/ transportation and the ease of doing business, also tasking the government with driving policies to support the activities of indigenous manufacturers in Nigeria, considering foreign dominance in the sector.