A former board member of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and ex-international, Dominic Iorfa, has been re-appointed vice-chairman of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) side, Lobi Stars, of Makurdi. Iorfa who led Lobi Stars to their first and only FA Cup triumph in 2003 was reappointed following the resignation of the former vice-chairman, Emmanuel Tama Aondofa, yesterday. Tama’s resignation was due to the continued abysmal performances of the Makurdi based club in the ongoing football season which have left the club rooted 19th on the league standing with just 19 points after 19 rounds of matches. The deputy governor of Benue State, Engineer Benson Abounu, who doubles as Chairman of Lobi Stars, announced the appointment of Iorfa as the new vice chairman of the club. He said the action became expedient to reposition the team and save it from being relegated to the lower division. According to him, the appointment of iorfa was done after due consideration so that he will bring his vast experience in football management and administration to bear on the club. He also announced the appointment of a veteran sportswriter and vice president, Sport Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), Uja Emmanuel, as the media director of the club. Before now, Abounu, had expressed disappointment that despite gulping over N37 Million monthly, the club is still struggling for life at the topflight of the Nigerian domestic league. Consequently, he directed the then vice-chairman to win the NPFL Week 19 match against Enugu Rangers or face dire consequences. Unfortunately, Lobi Stars travelled to Awka and were beaten 5-3 which left the embattled erstwhile vice-chairman with no other option than to throw in the towel on Monday. Engr. Abounu decried the poor performance of Tama’s led management team in less than one year as administrator of the club. “There were recent changes that brought Tama on board but in less than one year the club is going down to the relegation zone of 19th position, second to the last on the league table” “We  have done everything possible to bring the team’s lost glory back but yet to no avail.” I and the Governor were disturbed when the club was in the 13th position. We called Tama and he promised to make certain changes and lift the club back. He fired the technical adviser he brought and made a few changes in the management of the team but nothing good came out of this. “So after due consideration with all stakeholders including the governor, we asked for Tama’s resignation which he gave us some few minutes ago. The entire management is dissolved and a new management will be constituted to save the club from relegation,” Abounu added.