The Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice John Tsoho, has dismissed an application by the Nigerian Governors Forum, for leave to appeal the judgement of the court which declared as illegal deductions by the federal government from the federation account for debt servicing. A firm, Linas International Limited and 235 others dragged the federal government to court to challenge the illegal deduction. Other defendants in the suit are the attorneys general of the federation and minister of justice, the minister of finance and the Accountant General of the Federation. The NGF filed an application as an interested party in the matter. It sought the leave of the court to appeal the judgement. After counsel in the matter argued their briefs, the court in its judgment said the the court must be satisfied that there is a sufficient reason which prevented the applicant from exercising its constitutonal right of appeal before the prayers can be granted. He said for leave to be granted, an interested party must show sufficient interest in the proceedings and judgment of trial court. Justice Tsoho held, “Application for leave to appeal being an equitable remedy is never granted for the asking. The court must be satisfied that there is a sufficient reason which prevented the applicant from exercising its constitutonal right of appeal before the prayers can be granted. “The only interest shown in the subject matter in paragraph 2 of the affidavit in support is that the Nigerian Governors Forum is a registered political pressure group for Nigerian Governors within the Nigerian polity. | do not see how the judgment arising from enforceabe contract between the judgment creditor and judgment debtor and tne garnishee has affected the applicant who is not a party to the contract. “Tne Applicant is nether a state nor a Local Government. | therefore resolve this issue against the Applicant and hold that the Interested Party/Applicant did not fulfill the requirement for leave to appeal. “As a consequence of the foregoing findings, the application of the interested party/applicant failed in its entirety and it is accordingly dismissed.’’ In the suit, Lina’s and other plaintiffs sought the refund of over $2b by the federal government to the local government councils and the Area Councils of the Federation. The plaintiffs also sought the refund of additional over $563m due to the LGAs. The plaintiffs also sought the refund of additional over $563m due to the LGAs.