President Muhammadu Buhari has arrived at the site of the three million metric tonnes Dangote Fertiliser Plant built at a whopping cost of $2.5billion, nestled on 500 hectares of land in Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos State. The president arrived at about 11.17am at the plant site that would give power to farmers in Africa and beyond and will be commissioning the project any moment from now. President Buhari is being accompanied by the host governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) like the minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, to the Dangote Free Zone. Other prominent Nigerians present at to witness the ceremony include the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, and Governor of the Central Bank, Godwin Emefiele, among others. On ground to celebrate the Nigeria’s success story are the governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari; governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa; governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun; Kogi deputy governor, Chief Edward Onoja, governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, governor of Nasarawa State, Abdulahi Sule; governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Zulum; governor of Kano State, Dr. Abdulahi Ganduje; governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola; national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong; governor of Cross Rivers State, Prof. Ben Ayade; captains of industry; members of the diplomatic Corps, National Assembly members, and traditional rulers, among The President and Chief Executive Officer of Dangote, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, in his terse address said the plant will make the country self-sufficient in fertiliser consumption and boost productivity of the farmers in the country. The unveiling of the urea fertiliser plant will also provide employment for many Nigerians and boost food production. Details Later…