Organisers of the annual Bola Tinubu Colloquium on Friday revealed that President Muhammadu Buhari will preside over the 13th Bola Ahmed Tinubu colloquium as the chairman , while Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu will be the chief host. According to a press statement signed by the Chairman of the Media and Publicity sub-committee, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, said this year’s edition slated to hold in Lagos on Tuesday next week will examine emerging global development issues and the importance of good governance for Nigeria to be an influential and respected member of the international community. He said, ‘’Professor Olufemi Bamiro, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, the keynote speaker, is expected to engage the central theme, ‘Pivoting Nigeria into the new world order: Imperatives of Good Governance’’ Omotoso who is the Commissioner of Information and Strategy in Lagos State stated that the colloquium will also feature a panel session where some of Nigeria’s leading technology entrepreneurs will discuss “Technology, Entrepreneurship and the future of work”. ‘’The panel discussion will be moderated by Tomilayo Akanni-Aluko and will have Bosun Tijani, Chief Executive Officer of Co-Creation Hub, as the Lead Discussant. Other panelists include Samson Ogbole, Managing Director, Soilless Farms, Temie Giwa-Tubosun, Group Chief Executive, Life Bank, Kikelomo Fola-Ogunniya, Co-founder, Jand2Gidi and Lot Madaki, Chief Executive Officer, Madaki Shoes.’’ Harping on the theme of the colloquium and the planning, Omotoso noted that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the man in whose honour the annual event is being organised, is an extraordinary statesman who has committed himself to making Nigeria one of the most prosperous nations. His words: “The theme speaks to the person and values of Asiwaju Tinubu. To celebrate his 70th birthday, this year’s colloquium theme is most appropriate. We are talking about an outstanding public servant, who is an advocate of good governance in Nigeria and Africa. He demonstrated this as Governor of Lagos in eight years where he laid the solid foundation for the progress and prosperity of Lagos State that we all talk about today.” 