A former special adviser to Kano State governor, Salihu Tanko Yakasai, has dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Yakasai said he would decide on the next line of his political engagement. He formally announced his exit from the APC yesterday, saying the trust and confidence he reposed in the party in both the first and the second terms had been betrayed. He stated this to journalists where he highlighted the hopes and promises, and second chance given to the party that was betrayed. Yakasai, who also served as director-general, Directorate of Media and Communications at the Government House, Kano, was suspended from office in October 2020, later arrested and sacked in February 2021 for criticising the APC-led government. He said, “I have been a bona fide member of the APC right from its inception, almost a decade ago, precisely in February 2013. “Regretfully, the trust and confidence we reposed in the APC (the government as well as the party) on two occasions (first and second terms) was betrayed. If anything, things became worse in the second term. The benefit of the doubt we gave the party in the first term vanished as we moved deeper into the second term. “Accountability demands that we give account of our stewardship in government. I was privileged to serve my state, first, as Director-General, Directorate of Media and Communications at the Government House; and then as Special Adviser to the Governor on Media matters. In both capacities I served to the best of my ability. “During this period, I improved the image of the state government, and effectively networked with citizens groups to project a positive image of our state on the national scene at a time when irredentist mentality, gripping certain parts of the south, was portraying a negative image of the north generally. “It was in that spirit that I vehemently criticised the PDP led government prior to 2015. It will be hypocritical of me today to keep quiet when our own APC government and party have under-performed.”