The Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) on COVID-19 has lifted travel testing requirements for COVID-19 vaccinated travellers. Speaking at the national briefing yesterday, PSC chairman and secretary to the government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha said that the revised international travel protocols, would take  effect on Monday, 4th April, 2022. According to Mustapha, In-bound (fully vaccinated) passengers arriving in Nigeria will no longer be required to take a pre-departure PCR COVID-19 Test. He said that on arrival, for fully vaccinated passengers, a sample would be taken at the airport for rapid antigen test by the Nigeria Centre For Disease Control (NCDC ), within the arrival hall of all the country’s point of enters and airport. “Passengers who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated shall take a COVID-19 PCR test 48 hours before departure, or do a Day 2 and day 7 test on arrival. Such passengers will be expected to pay for their PCR tests through the travel platform. Fully vaccinated passengers will not be charged for arrival rapid antigen tests at the airport; “Rules that apply to fully vaccinated adults also apply to children aged 10 – 18 years; they will not be required to have pre-arrival PCR tests but will have a sample taken at the arrival hall but not charged. “All passengers travelling out of Nigeria are encouraged to be fully vaccinated and to fully comply with COVID-19 protocols and requirements in their country of destination,” he stated. The SGF said that the PSC continues to strongly recommend the use of face masks in enclosed environments, In open spaced, the use of face masks was discretional. The PTF boss also said that the country still have the National Response in place as its continue to monitor global trends and adapt them with the  situation in country. He stressed that there had been a consistent decline in number of cases around the world but that does not give Nigerians the leverage to let  their guards down yet because there were predictions of rebounds as Nigerians can see in China, South Korea, Germany, Vietnam, France, Hong Kong.