At least, five relations of the Benue State governor Samuel Ortom have been reportedly killed in a fresh attack by the marauding herdsmen who invaded Ahentse community in Ndzorov ward of Guma local government area of Benue State in the early hours of yesterday. The state police command public relations officer, Catherine Anene, who confirmed the attack in Ndzorov, said four persons were killed while one that sustained injury is receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital. Ndzorov is the ward of Ortom and his principal special assistant on special duties, Abrahams Kwaghngu. A resident of the area who simply identified himself as Iorliam in a telephone conversation with LEADERSHIP said the herdsmen in their numbers came from Awe local government area of Nasarawa State in the early hours of Wednesday and operated for about two hours, killing five persons, and injuring two others. According to him, “What worries me about the attack is the fact that an army unit is stationed at Iordye settlement, which is less than five kilometres from Ahentse, the attacked community.” He said they are beginning to wonder how invaders would come from Awe through Damkor, through Iordye where an army unit is stationed, down to Ahentse to cause such mayhem and flee unchallenged. “I want to ask, of what essence is the army unit at Iordye if they could hear gunshots emanating from sophisticated arms but choose to stay away, unperturbed? This is really worrisome,” he said. When contacted, the council chairman Caleb Abah confirmed the attack. He said, “I am aware of the incident, it happened in the early hours of Wednesday between 4 and 5:30 am.” Reacting to the attack, Governor Ortom called on the federal government to step up military operations to flush out armed herdsmen from neighbouring states. The governor said a situation where killer herdsmen take shelter at the neighbouring states, sneak in and kill farmers in Benue in their sleep without provocation, will not be tolerated any longer. “Let the security agencies continue to cooperate with us in Benue to end this bloodletting. Let us dislodge these invaders from wherever they may be hiding for peace to return to our communities,” he said. The governor gave the names of the dead as Clement Tortiv, Enoch Utim, Terkimbi Kutaer, Mtaaega Tyogbea and Aondoaver Swende.