The Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN) and the senior technical assistant on Media to the President (OVP) Louis Odion, have mourned the publisher of Hallmark Newspaper, Prince Emeka Obasi. Prince Obasi was aged 58. LEADERSHIP learnt that Obasi, a veteran journalist and public relations aficionado, died on Tuesday, March 15, 2022, after a protracted illness. A statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja and signed by the president of NPAN, Kabiru Yusuf, described him as a quintessential journalist and media guru, who until his death, “was a member of our esteemed association as the publisher of Business Hallmark Newspapers.” Yusuf said although Prince Obasi died in his prime, the NPAN is consoled by the enviable legacies he left within and outside the media industry and the nation at large. “We cannot but recall his establishment of the National Mirror Newspapers, which he nurtured to the point that it attracted the attention of billionaire businessman, Jimoh Ibrahim, who bought it over,” he added. Also, Odion in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP, said it was very hard for him to accept the fact of Prince Emeka Obasi’s passing. Newspaper Publisher, Emeka Obasi, Is Dead He said like a warrior, he fought hard till his last breath against a medical condition that sapped him of everything: from vigour to finance, everything. “But there was something that infirmity couldn’t take away – the warmth of his spirit. “Like a true warrior, Prince pushed back for more than eight years, against this strange affliction, this invincible foe. Whenever I could, I would stop by at his Ikeja GRA, Lagos home, full of laughter and deep Christian faith,” he said. He said he do gist and joke on everything with the late publisher ranging from politics and personal issues till his demise. “Always around was his soulmate and sweetheart, Dr. Betty Obasi, a tower of strength to hubby through the dark tunnel of adversity. “He fondly called me “My in-law” (wife Betty hails from Edo State like me). “We spoke as recently as few weeks ago. As frail as his voice sounded, he continued to echo courage in the throes of unspeakable misery,” he said. “Adieu, my friend and brother, the true Prince of Nigeria, the one whose eyes were truly blind to ethnicity and religion, whose mind was completely free. Adieu, Prince,” he added.