It was a colourful atmosphere at the Liberty Stadium in the ancient city of Ibadan, Oyo State as the family of the saxophone legend, Prince Eji Adegboyega Oyewole –Aiyejenku Foko family and indigenes celebrated the Ibadan Day. The event often accompanied by much fan fare, glitz and of course, gun salutes to the departed heroes of Ibadan land, held last Saturday, March 25, 2022 even as indigenes from different spheres of life came and paid homage to the new Olubadan of Ibadan, His Royal Majesty (HRM), Lekan Balogun. Balogun who is set to be crowned officially as Olubadan of Ibadan, had his first public outing last Saturday. It was a tale of culture, arts and history as different families and groups showcased what they are known for. According to Prince Oyewole whose senior brother is the Arole/Magaji of Ayenjeku Foko, Sir Chief Eddy Oyewole, the Ashipa Olubadan of Ibadan, his  great grandfather was the ‘Ibadan keta’. Speaking at the palace of his forefathers baale (Oba) Oyewole, he said, “Aiyejenku Foko was the son of Alaafin Ajaka who left Oyo Ile and discovered Ipee near Kwara where he became the Oba. He came to Ibadan with a crown on his head and riding on horseback with his entourage to join others who fought to establish and to stabilize  this third Ibadan settlement known as ‘Ibadan Keta’. “Oyewole his Son became baale ( Oba) of Ibadan land  in 1925. He built The Foko Palace fondly referred to as the mini Buckingham palace and  simultaneously built the Mapo Hall at the auspices of the British colonial which was commissioned by Captain Ross at the time of Shiyanbola Ladigbolu the Alaafin of Oyo who was Oyewole Foko’s cousin.” The historical event at other families like the Akere, Ibikunle, Ogunwusi to mention a few. The president of the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII), Prince Oluwayemisi Adeaga noted that  Ibadan has a great heritage and illustrious sons and daughters, and the group would support the new Olubadan and raise funds for the palace and others necessities. Dignitaries that came include representative of the Governor, Seyi Makinde, Senator Kola Balogun, Chief Mutiat Ladoja, Chief Nike Onikepo Akande and others. 