A technology expert has proffered easy routes to secure United Kingdom (UK) visa for tech startups and innovators from Nigeria, saying it is stress-free and faster than student visa process. Speaking at a one-day eMigr8 programme organised by Bincom Dev Centre, which recently initiated a new campaign that focuses on educating people how to secure UK visa within three-six months through legal migration abroad, they said UK Startup Visa and UK Innovator Visa are the quickest routes. At the event hosted by tech entrepreneur, Bade Adesemowo, Coach Oluwaseun Fadiora, an innovator and startup founder explained his journey to the UK and how anyone interested can replicate it without going through the UK global Talent visa or student visa route. He said the UK Startup Visa route is less expensive compared to the student visa route. It requires minimal background tech experience; visa holders can work full time while building their startup. However, one must be interested in and dedicated to building a startup in the UK. On the other hand, the UK Innovator Visa is for people who already have their startup running with about fifty thousand pounds (£50,000) invested. As a recipient of the innovator visa, there is a pathway to settlement. It’s also possible to go from a UK Startup Visa to a UK Innovator Visa. For both routes, you need to find an endorsing body to endorse you and your ideas. In addition, you are required to show commitment to building and growing your innovation and adding value to the UK system. He further debunked the myth that innovation must be mind-blowing and must have never been done before. Fadiora said innovation is not necessarily doing something new; it could be as simple as reducing a ten-step process to a five-step process. At the event, Coach Fadiora began by sharing experiences from his past, present, and future.  He mentioned that in his first year in the university, he had a 0.47 out of 5 GPA, but he eventually finished with a second-class upper grade. “A lot of us try things, fail, and then refuse to go back. However, when you fail, you should go back and try again”, he enthused. He started his career in an editing firm, then a research firm. He later worked in investment banking before starting his own business. He would later hear about the UK Innovator Visa and spent time trying to find an endorsing body. One of the bodies replied to his application, saying that they were not impressed with his idea. He pressed on until he got endorsed. He said the Innovator Visa is a higher version of the Entrepreneur Visa, and there are steps to being successful in its pursuit. First, you must have a concept that is viable, innovative, and scalable. Another condition is that you must employ five people and pay them up to twenty-five thousand pounds (£25,000) per year. Fadiora added that at the end of the day, what’s important is that you can improve the system, provide solutions, and show tangible proof of work. “It’s essential to take the first risk (the first step) and then move on strategically from there as all the decisions you make today will contribute to the future,” he added. 