Dattijo, who lauded the achievements of imcumbent Governor Nasir El-Rufai, said his immediate priority will be on sustaining the current level of achievements, build on them to advance the development of the State, expand its security and prosperity and grow a vibrant economy that is driven by quality service and transparent leadership. The former Chief of Staff to Governor El-Rufai, who disclosed his intention to run for the governorship office on his verified Facebook Page on Tuesday, said he has been privileged to learn from Mallam El-Rufai and understudy the thinking behind every policy intervention and decision of the APC-led government in the State. “Over the last 7 years, I have had the unique opportunity to work closely with, and support our Governor, Father and Leader – Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai in his efforts to transform our dear state. As even his harshest critics will accept, the period from 2015- date is the most historic development our state has witnessed since its creation. “With a front seat in government, first as Commissioner, later as Chief of Staff, and again as Commissioner; I have had the privilege to contribute to debate and to understudy the thinking behind every policy intervention and decision of the APC government. I am confident of my ability to sustain all that has been achieved so far and continue to Move Kaduna Forward,” he said. He added that, “as a development practitioner, I’m conscious of the danger of retrogression and the need to ensure that the gains we’ve made as a State are not reversed under whatever circumstances. I am therefore putting myself forward based on the need to ensure the continuity of excellent performance we’ve witnessed in the last 7 years.” Dattijo, who was a special adviser to a former Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, said he will be embarking on consultation tours to listen to ideas, opinions, suggestions, contributions, prayers and concerns, which will shape the thrust of his campaign. The international development expert was recently appointed as an associate and founding member of Dunning Africa Center by the prestigious Henley Business School, University of Reading, United Kingdom. In 2018, he was appointed by the World Bank as a member of its Expert Advisory Council on citizen engagement.