The number of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential aspirants who have picked forms rose yesterday as Akwa Ibom State governor, Udom Emmanuel, former chairman/CEO of FSB International Bank PLC, Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen picked presidential forms. Also yesterday, former chief executive officer of Pfizer Pharmaceutical Company, Mr Sam Ohuabunwa also picked the forms bringing the total number of PDP aspirants to 14. So far, those who have picked the forms are former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki; former Senate President and former Secretary to the Federal government, Sen. Pius Anyim. Others are the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal; Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike; Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed; media owner, Dele Momodu; Olivia Tari-Oba; Dr. Nwachukwu Anakwenze; Mike Rich. Like some other aspirants, Governor Emmanuel’s forms were purchased for him by the Brekete Family, whose spokesperson Innocent Orji, said they choose the Akwa Ibom State governor because of his performance at the state level. Speaking after he picked his nomination forms yesterday in Abuja Hayatu-deen, kicked against plans by the party to zone the presidential ticket ahead of the 2023 election. He said, “I am not aware of any referendum for the Nigerian people to vote on zoning, zoning is a matter of convenience for certain leaders and for parties to discuss and agree among themselves, it is not an imposition that everyone is bound to abide by.” He further said having advised three presidents and served as chairman of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group, he has the capacity to fix Nigeria’s economy. Also, Ohuabunwa after securing his forms said “I am running for President on the platform of PDP in order to change the perennial national narrative of doom and gloom. Indeed, 2023 presents us with the most opportune moment to enthrone a new transformational leadership that will help build a New Nigeria that ranks as a globally competitive first world country and where Nigerians are safe, fed, sheltered, empowered, happy and proud to be Nigerians.”