The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has tasked Telecommunication Companies to ramp up measures to protect consumers who use their networks for digital financial transactions, stressing that it will reduce the menace of e-fraud in the country. The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Professor Umar Danbatta gave this admonition while delivering his opening remarks during events to mark the 2022 edition of World Consumer Rights Day celebration, in Abuja yesterday. The theme of this year’s World Consumer Rights Day, is “Fair Digital Finance” which urged stakeholders to protect consumers and keep them abreast of the critical issues in the sector. The NCC boss also warned the consumers about the vulnerabilities in using digital financial services, adding that some of the challenges are further worsened by unscrupulous people that exploit consumer vulnerabilities for illicit gains. “This is because more people are signing up for digital financial services like banking, insurance, and investment management. Juniper Research predicts that users of digital banking services would increase by 54% from 2.4 billion in 2020 to exceed 3.6 billion by 2024. “However, some of these consumers must cope with vulnerabilities in using digital financial services. These challenges of adapting to digital platforms for transactions are further worsened by unscrupulous people that exploit consumer vulnerabilities for illicit gains. “All stakeholders have the responsibility to protect consumers against losses on account of their adopting digital platforms; they should enjoy the protection as obtained on the legacy platforms”, he said. Professor Danbatta said that National Digital Economy Policy Strategy (NDEPS 2020-2030) adequately addressed the protection of telecom consumers against the threats of cybercrime, encouraging them to embrace digital finance and supporting them to contribute to the digital economy. He noted that the Commission is committed to fulfilling its mandate and passionate about driving Digital Economy in Nigeria, and continued to implement initiatives in this regard. “Through its Consumer Affairs Bureau (CAB), it undertakes constant Consumer Education with a significant part of this effort dedicated to providing information that equips the Consumer to thrive in a world that has embraced digital finance. “Through its outreach programs, which have been re-tooled to reflect existing realities and trends, Consumer Affairs Bureau now has consumer-centric initiatives that include Telecom Consumer Parliament (TCP), Telecom Consumer Town Hall on Radio (TCTHR), Telecom Consumer Conversations (TCC) as well as social media platforms and a Consumer Portal that are avenues for telecom consumers to access education materials that include how to safeguard themselves while using telecom platform to access digital financial products”, he said. He said the commission has taken steps to protect telecom consumers, through the Nigerian Communications Commission’s Computer Security Incident Response Team (NCC-CSIRT). He added that the commission periodically notifies telecom consumers of the latest cybersecurity threats and how to avoid falling victims to them. Also speaking the Executive Commissioner Stakeholder Management of the NCC, Barrister Adeleke Adewolu, said it has become incumbent on stakeholders to address issues that would make access to, and usage of digital financial services safer for the consumer.  “Fortunately, over the years, the Commission has remained unwavering in its commitment to the telecom consumer. The annual commemoration of World Consumer Rights Day is, therefore, a catalyst for the Commission to scale up what it is already doing to protect, inform and educate the telecom consumer.  “Today’s event will shed light on the policies, initiatives, programmes, and activities that the Commission implements towards protecting the rights and addressing the concerns of the Nigerian telecom consumer, especially as they pertain to fair digital finance”, he added.