Coins have always featured in the currency of Nigeria as Kobo complements the Naira. Nigeria boasted of the one, five, 10 and 25 kobo, but as inflation took the Kobo out of circulation, coins faded out of the system. In 2007, the Central Bank of Nigeria reintroduced the coin reissuing the 50 kobo, one and two naira, with the N1 and N2 bimetallic. While there were complaints on the usability of the coins, they featured in daily trade and market places for a period before they once again faded out of the system. Recently, the House of Representatives has asked the CBN to enforce the use of coins as a legal tender as a measure to tackle price inflation and stabilise the economy. One of the key functions of the CBN is price stability. The motion for the enforcement of usage of coins had been sponsored by Muda Umar from Bauchi State, who had argued that the non-usage of coins has had a negative impact on daily business transactions in the country. “The coin should be brought back into circulation to be a legal tender like bank notes that we have in circulation. That will ease a lot of hardship and will improve the economy. The day to day business transactions of ordinary Nigerians have been significantly affected as the lack of coins and other lower denominations have resulted in prices being summed up to the nearest naira equivalent, a situation that can best be described as inflation in economic terms. “While other countries make use of coins for their daily financial transactions, the Nigerian coins comprising 50 kobo, N1 and N2 have not been fully utilised in that regard. Injecting low denominations and coins into the economy will go a long way in curbing price inflation and stabilising the economy,” Umar had argued. According to Professor Mike Obadan, an economist who chairs Goldmark Education Academy, Benin City and also serves as non-executive director/member, Monetary Policy Committee of the CBN noted that the cost of minting coins would be huge and might become a burden. “It will just add so much to the cost of printing and minting. If the CBN is being directed to start minting lower denominations, I am not sure what it will achieve in terms of stemming inflation, because it involves so much cost and even when you mint the coins, they may not be useful in buying anything because of the psychological elements in the pricing of goods and services and the current inflation,” he stated.