By ISAIAH BENJAMIN & AZA MSUE, Kaduna, Francis Okoye, Maiduguri, Tarkaa David, Abuja The Kaduna State government yesterday said security forces repelled an attack in the vicinity of the Kaduna International Airport. The commissioner for internal security and home affairs, Samuel Aruwan, in a statement, said security personnel attached to the airport responded and repelled the attackers. The statement added that the bandits unfortunately shot and killed a staff member stationed at the perimeter fence who raised alarm on sighting them. Aruwan said airport operations resumed with scheduled flights departing after the incident. The statement noted that security forces were conducting operations in the airport general area, adding that further updates would be communicated to the public. Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i was reported to have commended the security forces for their prompt response to the attack, and for repelling the attackers. The governor expressed sadness at the report of the casualty, and sent condolences to the family of the victim, while offering prayers for the repose of his soul. The bandits were said to be over 200 armed with sophisticated weapons. The attack according to our correspondent forced the authorities to temporarily shut down activities at the airport while the military battled the gunmen. Kaduna State police spokesman, ASP Muhammad Jalige, promised to get back to our correspondent. Troops Neutralise 126 Terrorists In Borno, 50, 801 Surrender The Theatre Commander, Operation Hadin Kai Joint Taskforce, Major General Christopher Musa, has disclosed that troops of the Nigerian military in the past three months killed 126 Boko Haram/ ISWAP terrorists. General Musa added that over 50, 801 Boko Haram terrorists and their families surrendered to troops at various locations in Borno and Cameroon between July 2021 and March this year. The commander made the disclosure at an interactive meeting with Journalists yesterday in Maiduguri on the successes recorded between January and March this year under the command’s special operation code named “Operation Desert Sanity”. He said amid the successes recorded, the military lost 10 personnel while 81 incidents of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were recorded between January and March, 2022. Musa said of the 50,801 terrorists that surrendered, 11, 349 are fighters while 15, 289 are women. He said because of the massive surrender of the terrorists, the military had educated troops on how to handle and screen them as they continue to surrender. He noted that a lot of actionable intelligence had been obtained from the  surrendered terrorists with the fighters kept in detention while the women and children are in the various rehabilitation centres in the state. He said the coordinated employment of kinetic and non-kinetic types of operations by the Operation Hadin Kai had been instrumental to the massive surrender of the terrorists, adding that the infighting between the fighters of dethroned and dead Abubakar Shekau and the ISWAP terrorists had also boosted the surrender. On the frequent abduction of travelers along the Maiduguri- Damaturu highway, the theatre commander said with trenches dug by the military which stretched from Damaturu to Maiduguri, the terrorists now have barrier of crossing the route to operate hence since the past three months there had been no incidence of abduction on the route. He said similar measures would be taken on the Maiduguri- Damboa road to make the road accessible to travelers moving from Maiduguri to Damboa up to Biu to avoid the stress of people moving through Yobe through Gombe State before moving to some areas in southern part of Borno State. He however regretted that within the months under review, there had been incidents of misconduct by personnel within the theatre of operation which was largely attributed to involvement of the personnel on psychotropic substances. On the welfare of soldiers in the theatre,  Major General Christopher Musa said with the welfare package put together by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Faruk Yahaya, troops now spend a maximum of two years on rotation while in the theatre while leave and passes are granted them every three months to travel and see members of their families. He cleared the fears of members of the public over the presence of the repentant terrorists, saying none of the fighters would be released from  detention and be reintegrated in the society.  Troops Discover Wreckage Of Missing NAF Jet Troops of the Nigerian Army have discovered the wreckage of a Nigerian Air Force aircraft which went disappeared from radar in Borno State on March 31, 2021. The Army on its official Facebook handle announcing the discovery said further exploitation was still ongoing.  The NAF director of public relations and information, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, had while confirming the incident,  said the aircraft lost contact with radar at about 5:08 pm on Wednesday, March 31, 2021. He said a search and rescue party had been launched, adding that details would be communicated appropriately. The Alpha-Jet was on interdiction mission in support of ground troops. The mission was part of the ongoing counterinsurgency operations in the North East. Almost a year after, troops of Operation Desert Sanity yesterday discovered the wreckage of the aircraft in the Sambisa Forest. “Troops of Operation Desert Sanity on clearance patrol in Sambisa Forest, Borno State, have uncovered the wreckage of crashed Alpha Jet aircraft (NAF475) that went off the radar with 2 crew members on 31 March 2021. Further exploitation ongoing,” the Air Force said.