LEAP Africa has appointed six new members to its board of directors. The firm is one of Nigeria’s foremost non-profit leadership development organisations. Coming from diverse backgrounds and sectors, the new board members are; Larry Ettah, Tola Adeyemi, Sadiq Usman, Joe Abah, Waziri Adio and Abas Idaresit, bring years of experience and leadership to the work that LEAP Africa does across the continent. Tola Adeyemi is a partner and head of Audit Services at KPMG Professional Services. He is a member of the firm’s executive committee. He has served various companies across various industry sectors, including Power & Utilities, Oil & Gas, Telecommunications, Consumer/Industrial Markets, Public Sector, Financial Services and Development Agencies. Tola has over three decades of extensive experience in providing Audit and related Advisory Services, Process Reviews, Due Diligence Reviews, Sox Implementation, working as Reporting Accountant and IFRS Conversion Services. Tola has worked in the UK, South Africa and Nigeria and is a regular speaker on contemporary accounting and governance. Larry E. Ettah is the executive chairman of Barracuda Capital Partners Limited, (an  Investment firm) he founded in 2018 after his retirement as the group managing  director (GMD)/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of UAC of Nigeria Plc (UACN). Ettah holds degrees from the University of Benin, University of Michigan, Stanford University, Harvard Business School and University of Oxford. Before his retirement, Etta chaired the Board of UAC Property Development Company Plc (UPDC), Chemical & Allied Products Plc (CAP), Portland Paints & Products Nigeria Plc, among others. Mr. Ettah currently serves on the Advisory Board of Chi Limited. Sadiq Usman is the head, Corporate Business Development, Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc. He has also served as a Special Assistant to the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, as a Vice-President with JPMorgan Plc, and an analyst with JPMorgan Plc. and Zenith Bank Plc. Before this role, Sadiq worked with the previous Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as an adviser on Economic Development. He is also a Non-Executive Director of NNFM Plc. Joe Abah is the Country director for Nigeria, DAI, Nigeria where he provides technical and strategic inputs to DAI’s existing portfolio of projects, in addition to supporting business development initiatives. He has gained extensive experience in the governance sector, working on public sector reform programmes for the U.K. Waziri Adio is a renowned Journalist and Policy Strategist. He is the Lead consultant on Public Communication, Policy and Public Strategic Management and serves as the Chief Strategy Officer of Think-Tank Consult. He was the editor and columnist at This Day Newspapers and director of Communications at Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, NEITI. Waziri earned degrees from the University of Lagos, Columbia University and Harvard University. He is a Fellow of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism and an Edward S. Mason Fellow in Public Policy and Management at Harvard University. Abasiama Idaresit is a technology entrepreneur and founder and CEO of Wild Fusion Limited – a digital marketing agency with offices in Nigeria, Ghana, and Kenya. Idaresit started his business with $250 seed funding and built it into a multi-million company across three African countries. According to the executive director, LEAP Africa,  Femi Taiwo, “we are honoured to welcome our new Board Members to the LEAP Africa Board of Directors. The diversity of experience, sectors and region makes a rich blend for us as we strive to achieve our mission across the Continent. We are convinced that the capacity of these new additions will contribute to the advancement of the work we do and create room for greater feats in the future.”