Ahead of the 2023 governorship election in Rivers State, a frontline politician in the state, Prince Tonye Princewill, has begun consultations with leaders and stalwarts of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) on the prospects of vying for the governorship seat on the platform of the party. Although he is yet to declare his intention to contest for the governorship seat, the APC chieftain on Tuesday held closed-door meetings with leaders and stalwarts of the party in Port Harcourt City and Obio/Akpor local government areas of the state. Speaking with journalists shortly after the meetings, Princewill said he engaged the party leaders and chieftains in order to get feedback from key stakeholders on his intention and plans for the APC and the state. He said: “This whistle stop tour is designed for me to consult, before a declaration is made. You can’t put the cart before the horse. I needed to sit and look into the eyes of leaders and have them look into mine, so we can tell each other the truth. “A declaration that comes after this kind of a process will stand the test of time. We have discussed all issues under the sun, from internal issues within the LGA, my father the King, how we will build a formidable front for our 2023, the leader Rotimi Amaechi, our commitment to his presidency and of course, my ambition. I’m encouraged on all fronts. They have all spoken very very well.” Meanwhile, Prince Princewill has commended APC Ward chairmen in Khana local government area of the state, for for keeping faith with the party. Princewill disclosed this on Tuesday in Port Harcourt, when he met with chairmen of the 19 wards in Khana LGA, also thanked them for remaining resolute in their support and loyalty to the leader of the party in the state and the South-South and the minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi. The APC chieftain, who noted that the future was very bright for the party and its members in the state, appreciated their support and told them that he would justify their faith in him in a very short time.