DJ Zeeez, who described himself as a classic artiste, has demonstrated his versatility by delivering virtually all genres in his music. He said that his music is Afrocentric because he shuffles between genres and has released singles in various genres. “I’d classify my sound as classic. I’m not really suited to any genre; I make whatever music sounds good to people, especially myself; it doesn’t matter if it’s hip-hop, Afrobeat, Afropop, rock or country music, or Afro rap; as long as it sounds good, it’s music. I include whatever appeals to me and my fans. I’m not like other artistes who prefer to stick to one sound throughout their careers, because if you stick to one sound, you won’t be able to enter another. It’s like saying, ‘I’m a rapper, and I’m going to rap my entire life’. “You’re not doing yourself or your talent justice, so I don’t want to limit myself,” he said. DJ Zeeez’s discography demonstrates that he is a multi-talented and multi-dimensional performer who has the ability to deliver in every situation. His first single, “Dey Alright” was released in 2019 and had Afro Rap
elements. “Chika,” the sophomore single, was delivered with Afro pop
trappings, while “Finito,” released in 2019, was similarly delivered with an
Afro pop feel. In his fourth song, “Shoti Broke Ni,” which was released in 2020 and was
solely Rap with a touch of Africanism, he described himself as a classic
artiste, which was true to type. In 2021, he released Afro-rap single titled, “Zaddy” as his farewell single.
DJ Zeeez established himself as a social media publicist in 2019 with the launch of Zeeezify Digital. Although he has been promoting entertainment
since his school days, he has been on a roll since the Zeeezify Digital was birthed, promoting musical artistes from Europe, the UAE, and parts of
Africa. “I’ve loved entertainment since I was a child, and that’s what I like to do,”
he further explained. DJ Zeeez has since made a name for himself as a musician as well as a
social media publicist. He has collaborated with a number of well-known and emerging artistes in the industry.