Can you give us your view on the state of the nation right now? We have recorded gains in some areas but are still struggling in others, and this is largely because investment made in those areas will take time to manifest and bear fruit. We are doing better with infrastructure, social investments and others. There’s also been a rather protracted fuel scarcity challenge which I hope will come to an end soon. Your party, the APC has been sharply divided, what advice do you have for members of your party? Well, disagreements are bound to occur in any institution with a lot of people in it. Conflict and disagreement cannot be divorced from politics, but it is how we address the issues that determine how we move forward. The convention has been a major bone of contention and I believe now that there are strong indications that it will hold as planned, we’ll know what else there is to address afterwards. In any event, consensus building is key and we have elections to plan for. We must therefore close ranks and do the needful once a new set of leaders has emerged. Some have said the APC may collapse after the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari? Many said the party would collapse at different times before now, and we are still here. Differences are bound to occur within a political party, but I am hopeful that we will find a way to manage them. You want to contest for the youth leader of your party and be the first woman, do you think you have what it takes to succeed? I’m not running because I want to be the first woman to occupy the position, I am running because I am qualified for the role and would like to serve my party. I also happen to be female so if I do clinch it, then we would have made history in the process. Do I think I can succeed? Yes, I do. My track record in youth advocacy speaks for itself; all of my adult life has been dedicated to advocating for enhanced inclusion. I have been part of several campaigns including Not Too Young To Run and since 2013, I have worked within both the political system and in civil society to promote youth and women’s issues. On the political front, I have also made key contributions to the party itself, both at the national level and back home in Ogun state and have been part of several initiatives geared at enhancing youth mainstreaming. Most recently, I participated in activities leading up to the Progressive Youth Festival which took place in Ibadan just last month. What are your selling points? Do you have the temperament for the position? What will you do differently? The most obvious one, I believe, is that as both a woman and a young person, my emergence as youth leader would further establish our party as a truly progressive one, especially at a time when women’s groups are rallying over gender bills being rejected by parliament and women and youth issues take centre stage on the global scene. The PDP also recently elected a 25-year-old youth leader in a bid to capture youth votes, and there really could be no better answer to that than a female youth leader who falls within the stated age range and has bountiful experience in youth engagement and mobilization, even beyond the political space. Regarding my temperament, I would say yes. I understand that consensus building is key and that leadership is about service, so what I’m doing is offering myself in service of my party, the young people within it and young Nigerians as a whole. On what I will do differently, I have had election experience and I know first-hand how tough it is for young aspirants and candidates. To that end, if elected national youth leader, God willing, my office will provide support for our young candidates regarding everything from legal services to training for campaign staff and volunteers to fundraising. Work will also be done to ensure that young aspirants get a discount on the cost of nomination forms. This is out of reach for many young people and a concession has been granted to women and people with disabilities, but many young male candidates are also unable to pay the full cost of nomination forms despite being eminently qualified to occupy elective office. So this will also be a priority. The third key part of my agenda would be to also push for affirmative action for young people in appointive positions. I have worked at the National Assembly so I understand the legislative process and will bring this experience to bear in seeking legislative solutions to challenges plaguing young people. I will also work to deliver the youth vote and influence policies across different levels of government, both at the federal level and in APC states, so that youth concerns are fully taken into account. Your loyalty to the party is being questioned in some quarters because of your previous utterances against the party All my statements during the episode being referred to are a matter of public record, and I made no utterances against the national leadership of the party. The comments are due in part to the media’s penchant for sensationalising stories and the mischief of those who oppose my bid. There were intractable complications in my state in the period leading up to the 2019 polls and I relinquished my membership of the party in protest of certain things. Those issues have, however, since been resolved, and the work I did both before leaving and after I returned in 2019 cannot be blotted out because I was away for six months. I was an active member of the party before 2019 and have remained active, even contributing more, since I got back. I have made contributions back home, including during the party membership registration exercise, a region wide campaign for young people and women to join the party and even empowerment programmes that members of the party benefitted from. I also could have joined the PDP then, but I did not, and many of those who supposedly remained in the party when there were complications in their states ended up working against the APC’s interests at the polls. So should my loyalty be questioned when I have, in fact, made it clear that for as long as I am a member of the APC, I will never work against the party’s interests at any level? I acknowledge that I could have handled the situation differently, and my approach to issues is significantly different now so I definitely would not react to a similar situation the same way. I’m doing a lot of work at home at the grassroots and all my activities have been geared towards promoting the party. I have also been chosen for national assignments by the party since I returned in 2019, and I don’t think that would have been the case if my commitment or loyalty was in doubt. Certain people are working hard to frame the entire episode in a wrong context, but it’s politics and such is to be expected in a contest. Your views on the recent rejection of some women gender bills by the national assembly dominated by your party Well, it is unfortunate that Nigerian women are still at the point where our rights are not being fully recognized by the Constitution. However, the House has rescinded its decision and I am hopeful that they reach an acceptable verdict this time around. What do you think should be done to enhance women’s participation in politics? We need enabling laws and policies at party level. Funding is also a major challenge, so crowdfunding needs to become more mainstream. What can be done to change voter apathy by the youths? If you look at voter turnout statistics, you’ll realise that apathy is a challenge that cuts across the different groups, not just youths. Nigerians would generally first have to realise that by not voting, they are indicating that they have no interest in contributing to the development of our democratic system and that they do not care about who leads or represents us. Our democracy was hard fought and that is not the right attitude to have towards it. I also often hear people say that votes don’t count but that’s not true. If it were, politicians would not spend so much buying votes every election cycle. On the part of political parties, messaging is key. If we want to unlock youth votes, then we must properly market that demography by communicating our attainments and ideas in a way that they will understand, and in a manner that will appeal to them. I work in media and public relations, so I know that proper messaging is crucial to the success of any political campaign. How we approach the different groups of youths also matters a great deal because the youth demography is not homogenous. There are youths who are learned, those who are not so learned, and other classifications exist, so we need an engagement strategy for each one.