Chairman of the fforum who is Ebonyi State governor, David Umahi, said that many businesses are closing down in the region. Umahi said since the commencement of the activities of the unknown gunmen, people now prefer to take their businesses to other regions of the country rather than the South East. He raised the alarm during the ground breaking ceremony of computer village estate in Abakaliki, the State capital. The estate is being built by the Ebonyi State government in collaboration with the Association of Computer Village Merchants of Nigeria. He said the Igbos are the enemies to themselves pointing out that until the activities of the gunmen are halted, the region would continue to suffer economic deprivation and stagnation. Governor Umahi called for concerted effort towards bringing the inhuman activities in the land to an end. He disclosed that he has met with President Muhammed Buhari towards finding a political solution to the continued detention of Nnamdi Kanu. He said those insisting on continuous sit at home order should also ensure that the sit at home should not be restricted to the 5 South East states but to all Igbos across the country and across the globe should sit at home each time it’s declared. The governor called on NdIgbo to always come back home to invest adding that such investment would not only develop the region but will boast the economic fortunes of the region. The state government during the ground breaking ceremony also allocated 2.5 hectares of land opposite the International Market Abakaliki to the Association of Computer Village Merchants of Nigeria for the establishment of a replica of computer village Ikeja Lagos State in the state. Governor Umahi said the essence of the partnership is to create job opportunities, enhance economic development of the state and for a more viable economy that would increase the revenue growth of the state. President of the Association of Computer Village Merchants of Nigeria, Mr Anthony Nwakaeze said that at completion of the village, the association would embark on development of software and artificial intelligence. Mr Nwakaeze said that the association would also embark on it’s social responsibilities and commended the State government for allocating the land to them. Ends.