Amid controversy on whether political appointees are to vacate their offices before contesting or not in primaries of the political parties, Niger State government has ordered political office holders aspiring to contest for elective political offices in 2023 to tender their resignation letter. The government in a circular obtained by LEADERSHIP dated 21/3/2022 and signed by the secretary to the state government Ahmed Ibrahim Matane gave all political aspirants who are appointees up to the end of March to tender their resignation. The  circular SSG/OfF/033 addressed to political appointees and public servants, reads: “You will recall that His Excellency the President and Commander in chief of the armed forces of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari  recently assented  to the electoral act which was released by Independent National Electoral Commission INEC on 26th February 2022 along with the timetable and the schedule of activities for 2023 general elections,  specified that political appointees and other public servants aspiring for political offices are expected to tender their resignation prior to the conduct of party primaries. “In view of the forgoing, therefore, and in compliance with the provision all political appointees and other public servants serving in both state and local governments of Niger State aspiring for political offices should submit their letter of resignation to the Office of Secretary to the State Government (SSG) on or before 31st March, 2022.” The circular also said it was for their information and therefore urged the affected appointees to comply strictly with the directive. Meanwhile, LEADERSHIP has gathered that seven commissioners have notified the government that they were resigning their appointments to contest for political offices. It was learnt that most of them would be contesting for the state House of Assembly and House of Representatives’ seats. Support is reportedly being mobilized for one of the commissioners to become the next governor of the state. A source hinted that “some of the commissioners are ready to take the risk but the governor has refused to align with the idea of allowing any of his commissioners to succeed him and has refused to show any support or opposition to over 20 aspirants in his party.” The source hinted further that the governor has told his political associates as well as all aspirants not to drop his name as he has no preferred aspirant.