The Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Faruk Yahaya, has commissioned the newly constructed Nigerian Army ultra-modern operations centre, situated at the Army headquarters complex. The new centre will coordinate and control all Army operational engagements across theatres of operations nationwide. The Chief of Army Staff commended his predecessor, Lt Gen (rtd) Tukur Yusufu Buratai for his foresight in conceiving the project, adding that the new operations centre will serve as a command centre, situation room, as well as operational briefing center for the Army. In a statement by the director, Army public relations, Brig Gen Onyema Nwachukwu, Yahaya appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari for his support to the Nigerian Army. He said that the Nigeria Army is better poised to fight insecurity in the country. In his remarks, Ambassador Buratai expressed delight with the completion of the project. He stated that the earlier design of the edifice has been improved upon by the current head of the Army, with several value additions upgrading the capabilities of the centre to international standard. He emphasized that its configuration was more befitting and highly professional in standard. Buratai pointed out that planning and execution are very critical in the success of military operations, stressing that to have a befitting ultra-modern operations centre is an indication of Nigeria Army’s, dynamism seriousness and commitment to professionally perform its constitutional roles. He therefore enjoined the Army to continue to operate in jointness with sister services and security agencies to fully attain its its constitutional mandate. In his welcome address, the chief of operations (Army), Maj Gen Olufemi Akinjobi stated that the centre is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, that will enable it serve tripartite functions of Command Centre, situation room and operations briefing facility.  These, he said, will afford the Army Headquarters an enhanced reach and capability to quickly intervene, direct and influence ongoing operations. 