\\Access Holding is planning to be among the top 5 financial institutions on African continent in the next five years. This, it planned to achieve through its five subsidiaries, comprising of the Bank, Lending company, Payment company, Insurance brokerage and its Pension Fund Custodian. Speaking during the Media Lunch organised at the banks’s headquarter in Lagos yesterday, the group managing director/CEO, Access Holding, Herbert Wigwe, said, the next phase of the transformational journey of Access has commenced, hence, the need for transition into a diversified institution. Disclosing that Access Bank will take care of banking services, he added that its Lendco will focus on consumer lending and agency banking; even as its PayCo subsidiary will oversee payment and switching service while its InsureCo will offer insurance brokerage and wealth management services and  its Access Pension Fund Custodian will focus on pension. While promising to utilise the strength of its subsidiaries and its already imprint in some African countries to further penetrate the continent’ financial service sector to be come one of the continent’s leading financial institutions, he pointed out that, the next phase will ensure the HoldCo has imprint in East, West and South Africa. “By 2027, we want to be the Top 5 in the continent operating from Ghana, South Africa. Botswana, Nigeria, among others. By 2027, Access will be in the eyes of the storm, having transformed to become a leading financial and ecosystem player, with its core businesss as the foundation,” he stressed. Speaking on the journey of the bank in the last 20 years, a journey that started in 2002, he stated that its last 20 years of existence has been fruitful, acquiring two big banks, that is, Intercontinental Bank and Diamond Bank in the process of the becoming the leading bank in the country. To him,  “our growth story over the last 20 years reflects our relentless efforts to seamlessly execute our 5 year cyclical strategic plans and consistently deliver our promise to be the world most respected African Bank.” Stating that the company now boast 45 million customer base and about N11.7trillion assets, he disclosed that, the bank now ranks first in Nigeria in terms of its balance sheet and customer base, saying, ‘we moved from a Nigerian institution  to a bank with global presence.’