In comparison with export earnings, “Nigeria earned N504.89 billion from agricultural exports in 2021, “which is 57% higher than N321.54 billion recorded in the previous year, and 87% more than the N269.83 billion recorded in 2019”, according to statistics released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The startling result: Nigeria’s annual agric trade deficits in the last three years is a whopping sum of N1.46 trillion. In a bid to develop the agric sector and lift millions trapped in the poverty camp of despair and disillusionment, the CBN has been at the forefront of undertaking various programmes to provide agric inputs and financial aids to farmers in a bid to ensure food security for the nation’s 200 million people. Reports have it that agriculture constitutes 25.9% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the Nigerian economy that has an estimated value of N18.74 trillion. If Nigeria’s agriculture has failed in meeting local demands and earning significant foreign exchange, then, the need to improve on its fortunes remains an irreversible option. From available statistics released by the NBS, “In the year 2021, the sector recorded a 2.13% year-on-year growth in real terms, which is slower than the 2.17% growth attained in the year before. Over the years, several policies have been implemented in a bid to spur growth in the Nigerian agricultural sector. Some of these include a ban on importation of some food items, closure of land borders, and financial injection into the sector.” The inability of the sector to meet its targeted dream is tied to the subsistence system practised by many Nigerian farmers, including non-use of technology to broaden the highway of agribusiness that combines technology, in line with modern practices.  In the present world made easy by the deployment of modern technology, the Nigerian agric sector remains at the backwaters of knowledge, thereby strangulating its prospects in developing its growth.  In the face of threatening food insecurity made grim by the monsters of insecurity ravaging many parts of the nation, the coming together of many agribusiness firms under the Nigerian Agribusiness Group (NABG) has ignited a flame in galvanising agricultural activities in meeting the nation’s food requirements and providing raw materials for the nation’s industries. According to the Director General of the NABG, Dr Maigari Manzo, this association of agribusiness professionals, led by experts of a private sector-driven initiative, is poised on synchronising firms by “working together to grow Nigeria’s agricultural economy with the sole vision of creating jobs for Nigerian teeming youths and lifting millions of them from the holes of poverty. “In order to ensure positive and realistic policies aimed at revolutionising the agric sector, the NABG is currently engaging governments at all levels for effective policy directions and recommending regulatory reforms for inclusive socio-economic growth. In carrying out its activities, the NABG is also engaged in promoting the principles of inclusive growth and sustainability through embracing gender sensitivity that creates    employment opportunities for Nigerian youths. The vision of the NABG is through collaboration with government, Development Partners to drive sustainable growth in Nigeria’s agricultural sector. NABG, once headed by the late Alhaji Sani Dangote, but now led by Mr Emmanuel Ijewere, is coming into office with unrivalled experience on advancing agribusiness as a veritable tool in securing food security and development of the nation. Some of the positions held by Ijewere, who is the Chairman of Best Foods Ltd, include the chairmanship positions of the Agriculture and Food Security Commission and the Modified Value Added Tax Committee. Apart from being a member of the National Economic Forum and the International Investment Council (IIC), the new NABG President was also a member of the Agricultural Transformation Implementation Council (ATIC). Ahead of the inauguration of the Buhari Presidency in May 2015, Ijewere served as a resource person on Agriculture to the Buhari Transition committee. On assumption of duties as president, he called on the Nigerian government to commence full economic diversification that should place a premium on non-oil sectors as the best strategy for development. He said the NABG under his leadership is poised to “emphasise smart agriculture and mechanized farming to enable farmers overcome the natural encumbrances that come with the business in terms of storage, farm implements, seedlings, fertilisers, quality of produce, among others”. Unlike in the past when quality of agric produce was not a serious issue, the new president vowed that in a bid to make agric produce from Nigeria meet international standards, “the NABG would focus on improving the quality of agric produce going out of the country so they can be globally competitive, adding that Nigeria needs to boost its exports and deemphasize imports.” What sets the NABG apart from others as a serious group is the presence of professional players in the agribusiness who are endowed with the capacity of rallying farmers and tackling some of the challenges confronting farmers and farming. In advancing the fortunes of the agric potentials that still holds the flame for Nigeria’s development, these professionals in the agribusiness field are into robust partnerships with international organisations, including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, to support active players in the sector and surmounting unique challenges being faced by Nigerian farmers. The many challenges confronting agriculture are not unknown to these agribusiness experts. Policy inconsistencies and the deliberate act of not carrying farmers along are yet to be surmounted. On these points, NABG is poised to tackle. The National President of the All Farmers’ Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Arc. Kabir Ibrahim, who doubles as the Chairman of the Administrative Board of the NABG, believes that the roadmap evolved by the group is all-compassing and declares the readiness of the agribusiness experts to unleash the desired change and create an enabling agricultural landscape in the country for positive development. He is quick to carpet the CBN for the Anchors Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) and poses several questions to expose the weaknesses in its implementation: “How many farmers were consulted when they were starting the programme? How many real operators were involved or contacted? Even in disbursing the monies, how many real farmers benefited? How do we know that all the beneficiaries were genuine farmers? Beside the act of limiting the ABP to only two million farmers in the country, Ibrahim recalls that that the former Minister of Agriculture, Dr Akinwunmi Adesina, who is now the Head of the Africa Development Bank (AfDB), had a vision for rallying no fewer than 14.5 million Nigerian farmers in order to get better results in realising the full potentials of the agricultural sector. Complaining about the lack of continuity of programmes that have worked against consistent programmes by the Apex bank, the AFAN President believes that the institutionalisation of the ABP as embarked by the CBN would create new frontiers for the enhancement of the agric sector in the country.  From the submission of Arc. Kabir, since it’s the general consensus by everyone that agriculture is the future of Nigeria’s economy, then, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture is better positioned than the CBN to manage the ABP. Without a doubt, the NABG, comprising aggressive agribusiness experts, remains an irreversible option in injecting professionalism in improving the fortunes of the sector. With the vast network of synergies cultivated by these experts across the globe, and endowed with knowledge of local setting, NABG may as well be the fulcrum of a deliberate private initiative aimed at ensuring food security for the country through the modernisation of our agricultural system that is largely subsistent in nature.