The Qualified Business Income Deduction The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) created the Qualified Business Income (QBI) deduction when the law went into effect in 2018. You might be able to deduct 20% from your qualifying business income if your business is a pass-through entity—a sole proprietorship, an S corporation, or a partnership, passing its income and deductions down to its shareholders, partners, or owners to report on their personal returns.  Fund a Retirement Plan Setting up and funding a retirement plan for yourself and/or your employees can save you money on taxes. Make sure it’s a qualified plan so you can take advantage of those tax savings. It must be one that’s recognized by the IRS to allow deferment of taxes on earnings until the earnings are withdrawn. They include IRAs and defined contribution plans such as a 401(k) or 403(b).  Take Tax Credits to Lower Your Business Income Tax credits are the federal government’s way of encouraging businesses and individuals to do things—or not do things—that affect the greater good. For example, you can take tax credits for hiring employees, going green, providing access to disabled employees and the public, and providing health coverage for employees.  Buy Equipment and Vehicles for Depreciation Deductions Businesses can take tax write-offs on purchases of business equipment, machinery, vehicles, and sometimes even real estate. These write-offs can sometimes be taken in the first year you own and use the equipment. The two most common types of this accelerated depreciation are Section 179 deductions and bonus depreciation.  Deduct the Cost of Gifts You can deduct up to $25 per person of the cost of gifts given to customers and vendors. An exception exists for those that bear your business name, are distributed as a matter of course, and cost less than $4.6. Deducting the costs of entertainment is a bit trickier if you show your appreciation by paying for a good time. These costs are no longer deductible unless the event is directly related to your business in some way.  Time Your Business Income and Expenses Timing your income involves moving it from one year to another. You first have to determine the year in which you expect to pay the most in taxes. Review your current expenses before the end of each year and prepay some of those amounts if you want to reduce your income for the current year. You can also increase your expenses and decrease income by making expenditures such as stocking up on supplies.  Write Off Bad Debts to Reduce Income The end of the year is also the time to review your customer accounts if your business operates on the accrual accounting method. First, find those customers who aren’t likely to pay you. You can write off the amounts they owe as “bad debts” and deduct these amounts from your business income to save on taxes.  BY Jean Murray Culled From: https://www.thebalancesmb.com/ways-to-save-on-business-taxes-397610 