According to a statement issued yesterday by the British High Commission in Abuja, this makes Nigeria the first country in Africa to perform such feat, stressing that it is an energy and emissions model to assist Nigeria in achieving its climate goals. Present at the event in Abuja yesterday were Catriona Laing, British High Commissioner to Nigeria; Sharon Ikeazor, Minister of State for Environment; Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development; Dr Ogbonnaya Onu,  Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Prof. Eli. Jidere Bala, the director-general/ CEO Energy Commission of Nigeria, and various stakeholders. “The update, the first in Africa, was delivered under the UK Government’s international 2050 Calculator programme, which is funded by the UK’s International Climate Finance, and was led by global engineering, management and development consultancy Mott MacDonald, and a consortium which includes Imperial College, Climact and Ricardo,” the statement said. At the event minister of science, technology and innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, said, “This is an energy planning tool that enables choices in energy development pathway to be examined, along with its environmental consequences. The NECAL2050 model should form part of our national energy planning tools. This will be used in planning energy needs for Nigeria’s Vision 2050 and beyond. This will reflect Nigeria’s commitment to cleaner and more sustainable energy utilisation.” The present version of the NECAL 2050 Calculator – a tool that allows users to trial different options for reducing emissions at a faster rate and to build a pathway that meets long-term emission targets to 2050 – is designed to help industries and the energy sector to set their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, as well as to identify realistic solutions which support the implementation of Nigeria’s climate commitments, also known as Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). The British high commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing in her remarks said, “The launch of the Nigeria Energy Calculator 2050 further strengthens bilateral collaboration between the UK and Nigeria on the clean energy transition. Nigeria’s energy sector accounts for 60 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions and the sector is also key to the delivery of Nigeria’s many development priorities; it is therefore critical to understand the options that are available to reduce emissions while matching energy supply and demand. “I look forward to seeing the NECAL2050 tool supporting different sectors of government to design and deliver high-quality policies that enhance the conditions for strong governance, growth, job creation and poverty reduction.” Also, minister of state for environment, Sharon Ikeazor, said, “The ministry as the national coordinating body of climate activities will leverage on this tool for policy and decision making for the implementation of Nigeria’s long-term strategy for climate change under the Paris Agreement, as well as identify realistic solutions towards supporting the implementation of Nigeria’s NDCs.”