Political parties, civil society organisations, associations, ethnic organisations, faith-based groups among other key actors, are whistling in cacophony, with some chanting songs of wars in symphony, while others have been drumming the orchestra of marginalisation and sometimes, exerting emotional blackmail in order to be heard, recognised and accepted as the legitimate heir apparent to President Muhammadu Buhari. In doing these, people trade and propagate all manners of archaic and parochial sentiments without recourse to realities. No doubt, activism, negotiations, and non-violence agitations are like grease, they lubricate democracy and nurture it to full stature. In fact, they are the very ingredients that have placed democracy far above other systems of government and are parts of the enduring qualities that have distinguished the democratic system from other systems of government. However, agitations must be fashioned, concretized and pursued within the framework of some known and indisputable historical realities. For instance, the North Central has come all out lobbing the two major political parties, All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for their 2023 presidential tickets. They argued that from 1960 to date, except for the period of military intervention, the North-Central has never been given the chance to produce candidate for a presidential election. This antecedent is as a result of the unwritten rule that suggests that a zone that produces a party chairman is automatically excluded from producing the president. According to them, those geopolitical zones that think Nigeria belongs to them alone have always used this subtle strategy to deprive North-Central the chance to occupy the two highest positions of power in this country. North East has produced a President (Alhaji Abubakar Tafawa Balewa – Prime Minister (1960-1966) and a Vice President (Alhaji Atiku Abubakar – 1999-2007), while North West has produced three (3) Presidents (Alhaji Shehu Usman Aliyu Shagari – 1979-1983; Alhaji Umaru Musa Yar’Adua – 2007-2010; General Muhammadu Buhari (RTD) – 2015-Date; and a Vice President (Arc. Namadi Sambo – 2010-2015). Equally, South West has produced two (2) Presidents (Chief Ernest Oladeinde Shonekan, Interim Head of State – 1993; General Olusegun Obasanjo (RTD) – President (1999-2007) and a Vice President (Prof. Yemi Osinbajo – 2015-Date), while South East has produced one President (Chief Benjamin Nnamdi Azikiwe – 1963-1966) and a Vice President (Dr. Alex Ekwueme – 1979-1983). Is it not apparent that the North Central and the South East are the most marginalized zones in the country? Again, of the six geopolitical zones of the country, only the South-East has not been President. The people of the region are equally asking that the other five geopolitical zones concede the presidency to the zone which is dominated by the Igbo, in the spirit of equity, fairness and justice. As it stands today, no zone has the monopoly of the most competent and brightest people in Nigeria. Some political analysts have also argued that power going round the country would give every section a sense of belonging. Some others have also advocated that zoning be given a constitutional provision and not just a party policy. In the opinion of this Newspaper, every citizen of Nigeria is entitled to accept zoning or reject it, but the overwhelming majority in Nigeria has agreed that zoning will bring inclusiveness now or in the future. Zoning is the only way to manage the nation’s diversity, ethnic interests and agitations. It is the only way to give every section of the country sense of belonging. The Presidency should be on the concept of the North and the South. There are three zones in the South and three in the North. So when one zone in the North has it in one party, another zone from the other part of the country should be entitled to it. We therefore advise the various regions and sections to engage in aggressive lobbying of political parties, with a view to actualising their dreams. They should employ all lawful means to achieve this. Nigeria belongs to all of us. 