All is now set for Pastor Chris Oyakhilome Healing School’s Healing Streams Live Healing Services session slated to hold from Friday, March 18, to Sunday, March 19, 2022. The event will be the first of its kind in 2022 and will see the pastor heal people of various diseases. There are indications that people from more countries than earlier envisaged are warming up for the service. At the moment, the event is already riding on the wings of positive feedback and loads of testimonies from other Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris cutting across geographical, cultural and political divides globally. A senior minister of the Healing School, Evangelist Dr Eddy Owase, said, “Anyone anywhere can receive a miracle.” Owase stated that testimonies are the Word of God clothed within stories. He added that when they are told, they communicate faith and power for the miraculous. He said the service can be joined via: www.healingstreams.tv/3days. “Millions of people all over the world are sharing the great news of the event, as signs through billboards, advertorials on buses, trains, and other sources have got every home, every street, every community, every city, and every nation into a grip of expectations hoping for the great moments with Pastor Chris. “The Live Healing Services have become special times of signs and wonders, postmarked with remarkable miracles and testimonies. Paralysis, cancer, HIV, tuberculosis, mental disorders, and all manner of sicknesses and diseases are healed when the power of God touches those who need healing. “With the participation of over 6.5 billion people in the last edition of the healing services that took place in October 2021, many are confident in their expectations for this programme,” he said. On her part, Bishop Janice Best of the United States of America said, “I am anticipating an increase in miracles and healing of all manner of sicknesses and diseases. “During the last edition, we saw people get healed and I am looking forward to this again, and I urge you to join in and partake. Get ready to receive and carry healing grace to your world.” Elisiva Falekaono was deaf for 17 years. This made communication and getting through each day a difficult task.