As war in Ukraine and sanctions on Russia threaten global economic growth, the future of China’s “dynamic zero COVID” policy is under scrutiny as a factor in supply chain disruptions and rising inflation. While the rest of the world is opening borders and learning to live with COVID-19, China’s elimination strategy – which involves using mass testing and tracing, border controls and snap lockdowns to contain the virus – has weighed on the post-pandemic economic recovery at home and overseas. The restrictions have slowed domestic spending across China, set off a brain drain in Hong Kong, and triggered export disruptions that have been blamed for fuelling rising inflation worldwide. In January, IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said Beijing’s pandemic strategy increasingly looked like “more of a burden” to the economy. “At a time of heightened market volatility, any possible news on another more serious COVID outbreak in China will stir market reactions and add further to commodity price volatility,” said Tommy Wu, lead economist at Oxford Economics in Hong Kong. GlobalData has forecast a 4.6 percent global inflation rate in 2022, compared with 3.6 percent in 2021, revising its inflation estimates upward for many of China’s major export destinations, including the US, Germany, the Netherlands, and Vietnam. The crisis in Ukraine has exacerbated pre-existing global inflation fears, with oil prices surging above $100 a barrel for the first time since 2014. China has declined to condemn Russia, the world’s second-largest natural gas producer and third-largest oil producer, over its invasion of Ukraine, and instead, has called on all parties to “exercise restraint”. “China supply-chain disruptions have driven up input costs for firms across sectors who’ve had to pass the higher cost of production on to consumers thereby driving up global good prices,” Gargi Rao, a GlobalData economic research analyst, told Al Jazeera, listing the US, Hong Kong, Japan, Vietnam, South Korea, and India as among the economies most vulnerable to China’s supply chain disruptions. “To tame these inflationary pressures, central banks in major economies are likely to hike policy rates. However, even after hiking policy rates, inflationary pressure may persist as the rise in price level is mainly driven by supply shortages.” While the economic impact of zero COVID pales in comparison to the potential fallout of the war in Ukraine, the unpredictability and suddenness of disruptions can have costly, albeit short-lived consequences. A lockdown in the southern Chinese city of Baise last month interpreted the transportation of aluminium ingots and raw materials to factories, triggering export delays that sent prices to a 14-year high. “Supply chain interruptions in China don’t discriminate by industry or geographic region,” Trivium China analyst Taylor Loeb told Al Jazeera. “They are unpredictable and have happened all over the country. The uncertainty will continue – not around the policy per se, but around the fact that the ‘when’ and ‘where’ of outbreaks, and the lockdowns that follow them, are unpredictable.” Apparently concerned about the economic fallout, Beijing has in recent months experimented with more targeted lockdowns that have focused on specific venues or neighbourhoods rather than whole cities. “The impact of lockdowns in China on supply chains will depend on how the lockdowns are implemented,” Tianlei Huang, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, DC, told Al Jazeera.