La-scatter consults was  founded with Jolly Jr. Akpojotor and Efosa Omuwa while they were still in University of Lagos 2002/2003. He was also the MD/CEO and President of World Miss University Peace Emissaries in Nigeria, and remains the largest individual shareholder, with more than 55% of the company shareholding. He  was the 1st Country Manager to the Nigeria Chambers Of Commerce USA (NICOUSA).was responsible for a variety of strategic and sales duties of NICOSA. He acts as custodian of the chamber’s assets in Nigeria and oversees the entire staff and running of the chamber. He was responsible for the development, implementation, and oversight of the Chamber’s master planning/ scheduling calendar to avoid overlaps and keep up continuity. As of July 2007, he was honored as the youngest Nigerian to ever receive the Universal Peace Federation, Ambassador for Peace Award (UPF),  aongside, Late, Ambassador Olushola, Nigeria’s former ambassador to Ethiopia, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, Ex-Vice and President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He is currently the Regional Manager, Island, Lekki, Prestige & New Territories -Moët Hennessy Africa & Middle East Born in Warri North, Delta State to an Itsekiri mother and yoruba  father from Epe, Eti- Osa Local Government Area- Lagos State, 40 -year- old Kafaru started living with his grandmother at the age of four and reunited with his mother at the age of 14. He speaks and understands Itsekiri language more than his paternal tribal language-Yoruba. He had his elementary education in Sapele, Association Primary School, and proceeded  to high school in Warri- Dore Numa college” and Twinkle star college, graduating from high school at the age of sixteen and later moved to his paternal state of origin, Lagos State, where he obtained  B.A. in Philosophy at the University of Lagos . Throughout his career,  Kafaru has  been able to earn the trust of several trade partners across Nigeria and maintained strong client relationships that generate repeat business. He attributes his success to his ability to listen to consumers, trade partners and put their needs first. An experienced sales expert with a demonstrated history of working in the wine and spirits industry with over 15 years of experience. He boasts  skills in field operations, sales and marketing. He  is among the best-known sales men in Nigeria, often criticised and admired for his managerial style which is considered complicated. He is skilled at developing the right action plan for people’s unique needs and committed to helping them choose the best brands. Outside of work, Temidayo enjoys snooker game, photography, and has a bold sense of fashion. During his career at Planet One Hospitality, Temidayo got promoted from Business Development Manager to Marketing, Brand, and Sales Manager before joining the Legendary Innocent Ujah Idibia (2baba) at Rumors Ikeja as the General Manager. After a successful two years of operations in Rumors Ikeja, He got promoted as the Group General Manager Rumors Festac. He  leads the Rumors Festac team to transcend their sales goals,  communication, leadership, goal-setting skills, and the ability to do damage control by minimizing loss, conflict, and confusion is another valuable and major strength of Temidayo L. Kafaru He  contributed tremendously in positioning the club above the competitive edge by his outstanding and unmatched managerial positioning insight. Between 2016-2017, he  got promoted for the third time and made the Chief Operating Officer (COO)and a shareholding place in Rumors Victoria Island. His performance caught the attention of Ledrop Nigeria and other reputable Wine & Spirit Brands and later  joined Ledrop Nigeria, as the National On-Trade & Off-Trade Field Manager, tasked with the responsibilities to cover marketing and sales across the Ledrop portfolio of brands Pan Nigeria. After a successful period at Ledrop Nigeria. In 2019, he  joined French multinational luxury goods conglomerate and number one wine & spirit brand, (LVMH) as the Area Manager- Island 1-2, Prestige & New Territories (South South) Moet Hennessy Africa  and Middle East.