Hostility of the western world is not a strange phenomenon to Russia and all those other countries that belonged to the defunct Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) that lasted for 69 years (1922-1991). Since the time of the six-year Second World War (1939-1945) especially when, in the pursuit of his annexation agenda, Germany’s Adolf Hitler, declared that  “Germany should either become a world power or will not continue to exist,” further stating that for the country to attain such a position it “needs that territorial magnitude which makes all the necessary importance” and identified Russia as a colossal empire and therefore “ripe for the solution,” the intensity of the hostility has been most obvious. Even with the disintegration of the USSR into several independent republics as a result of which the world assumed some kind of uni-polar structure as an indication of the defeat of the eastern communist bloc in the contest for spheres of influence across the world, Russia and some other countries with its own kind of ideological orientation have remained targets of various forms of attack by the West, particularly the United States which is the leader of the capitalist bloc.  The resultant suspicion between and among countries and political blocs with conflicting ideologies is always a source of tension in the world. Therefore, the launch of military operations on Ukraine by Russia could be a surprise to only those who neither identified the basic issues or concerns that have continued to characterize the relationship between Russia and the leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) nor ever showed enough sensitivity to the scenario that has produced the current situation. The accusations and counter-accusations that, long before the outbreak of the war, had defined the attitudes of the two sides towards each other all pointed to the possibility of the occurrence of the incident. Russia’s leader, Vladimir Putin, who has already shown sufficient anger over what he explained as a breach of agreement between his country and the NATO countries bitterly complained about the penchant of the United States for the violation of the international law and conventions including the “promises not expand NATO eastwards even by an inch.” Putin, in a lengthy address after the launch of the attack, tried to re-enforce the patriotic instincts of not only the Russians but even the Ukrainians, particularly the military personnel amongst them upon whom he called to disregard the orders of the country’s leaders and even specifically urged them to “immediately lay down arms and go home.” He most instructively said the military operations was lunched in “accordance with Article 51 (Chapter VII) of the UN Charter, with the permission of Russia’s Federation Council and in execution of the treaties and friendship and mutual assistance with the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Luhansk People’s Republic, ratified by the Federal Assembly.” He offered all those explanations in order to convince the world that the Russian government observed established rules and exercised caution before it deployed arms. Yet, the action of Russia largely interpreted as some kind of rush to spill blood appears ugly and dangerous and therefore subject of thorough interrogation and sharp criticisms by several concerned communities of the world. As a reaction to the attack, United States [US], United Kingdom [UK], Canada and the European Union have already, unsurprisingly, imposed sanctions on the Central Bank and Sovereign Wealth Funds of Russia in order to cripple the country’s capability for the execution of the war. At its level, Ukraine has already taken a bold step towards the discontinuation or escalation of the war as well as the effective mitigation of its effects by seeking to urgently join the EU. The formal request to that effect which was signed by the Ukraine’s leader, Volodymyr Zelensky, shortly after the start of the war indicates the country’s resolve to maintain its alliance with the Russia’s foes. The decision to sue Russia in the International Court of Justice [ICJ] is another manifestation of the full desire of Ukraine to not only bring the military operations against it to an end but also to assert itself as an independent country that has the full right to determine the kind of relationship it should maintain with any other country or power bloc. Both the refutal of the allegation of genocide in the breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk made against Zelensky government and the demand for immediate action against the defendant in this case have indicated that Ukraine and its backers are ready to deploy all the necessary instruments in the on-going combat with Russia. All these mean that the earlier expression of both the desire for peace and the readiness to participate in the necessary talks is not tantamount to submission or renouncement of faith in its present allies. Even with its inferiority in terms of military power and therefore vulnerability to violent attacks and conquest/annexation, Ukraine has appeared to be firmly committed to its friendship with the EU and NATO member countries. While Ukraine is desperately exploring all available options in its bid to roll back the violent attack on its territories, Russia has correspondingly been trying to provide justifications for its action. Putin’s expressed disapproval and clear condemnation of the disposition of the United States to world politics, particularly its regular meddlesomeness in the internal affairs of other countries are the usual reactions of all genuine lovers of peace. The United States which, as indicated in some documents, was the initiator of the 201 out of the 248 armed conflicts, which is 81 percent of the total that occurred in the world between1945 and 2007, is labeled as the guiltiest of any other country in the perpetration of violence. The Russia’s leader, in particular, attributed the various violent crises that caused terrible destabilization of such countries as Belgrade, Iraq, Libya and Syria to the manipulation of the United States. Russia’s real actions and threats have already generated the right kind of concern from across the world with, apart from those countries and bodies that have leaned towards one side or the other, many other ones appealing for caution and display of sensitivity to the humanity’s desire for security, safety and development, all of which the military operations will or have begun to endanger. As, by a certain ranking, the biggest nuclear power and possessor of the “Satan 2 Liquid Fueled Nuclear Missile” which is the most destructive weapon in the world, Russia remains a country to which, especially when it issues such a threat, an inestimable attention is paid. The persistent call by well-meaning people on particularly Russia for an immediate reconsideration of its approach to the crisis is therefore both natural and appropriate. While the validity of the huge concern it continuously expresses over its security which the expansion of NATO to Ukraine threatens to undermine is being fairly recognized by the international community, the absolute military option it has adopted is being dismissed as a condemnable act.   