The federal government has explained reasons why the national grid collapsed twice within a space of two days, saying it has now been recovered. Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, disclosed this on Wednesday after the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, SAN. According to him, several resolutions have emerged from a series of emergency meetings held by the Power Ministry, where all stakeholders have extensively discussed the issues and resolved all bickering. He likened Nigeria’s power challenge to a war situation, saying the country generates up to 8,000 MW. He said the shortage of gas and maintenance of generators, the fuel situation all combined to exacerbate the problem with the national grid. The power minister equally affirmed that the Federal Executive Council has given approval of N5billion to open up and expand Lagos/Ogun, to reinforce power supply to that region. JUST-IN: Nationwide Blackout Imminent As National Grid Collapses He said, “The more reason we are facing the situation now is as a result of the shortage of gas and some of the generators have to go to maintenance. “It is a scheduled maintenance and it is supposed to be scheduled outage but we had not envisaged that we will have issues around vandalization of pipelines which the NNPC has addressed as you can see evidently everywhere, aviation fuel, and petrol in the filling stations. It is a combination of many factors. That compounded the problem we are having on the grid. “We have recovered the grid now. The grid is back and we are trying to get more mega watts to push on the grid. We have set up small committees all geared towards getting more mega watts to put on the grid. Basically, the problem around gas. “You need to have gas contract between Generating Companies and gas supplies- some are form contracts, some are not. We are looking into this and have proffered some solutions in some few days to mature. “We have capacity of 8,000 mega watts – the one on the grid, imbedded and captive. If you combine all of them, you will get these problems that we are encountering. We are on top of the challenge and very soon, we will come out of it. “We have gotten approval now of N5billion from FEC to open up and expand – Lagos/Ogun where presently, they may not be enjoying quality electricity. We need to do this more.”