Nigeria is on the verge of investing in core gas transportation infrastructure to meet anticipated huge volume of gas demand both in West Africa sub- region and current untiring importunity for the commodity supply by countries in Europe. The federal government is presently amassing resources and building partnerships to assemble and couple a number of gas conveyor assets at the behest of European governments demand. Though some of these plans are already in the offing, minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, said, it will take time to build the infrastructure necessary to up capacity. Sylva confirmed Nigeria’s readiness to meet European demands for natural gas. Part of the efforts is the current push by Nigeria and other African countries to revive a massive gas pipeline project targeting supply of gas to Europe. Energy ministers of Nigeria, Niger and Algeria signed the ‘Declaration of Niamey’ during the third edition of the Economic Communities of West African States (ECOWAS) Mining and Petroleum Forum (ECOMOF) in Niamey on 16 February, 2022 The pipeline will enable Europe to tap directly into the three country’s significant natural gas reserves. Endorsed by Chief Timipre Sylva, Nigeria’s Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Mahamane Sani Mahamadou, Minister of Petroleum, Energy and Renewable Energies for the Republic of Niger and Mohamed Arkab, Minister of Energy and Mines, Algeria, the agreement will see the development resumption of the Trans-Saharan Gas Pipeline project. The gas pipeline of 4,128km will link Warri in Nigeria to Hassi R’Mel in Algeria, passing through Niger. Post completion, the pipeline will carry 30 billion cubic feet, bcm of natural gas yearly from Nigeria, Algeria and Niger to European markets via Algeria’s strategic Mediterranean cost, as well as supply inland stations along its route. The pipeline will enable Europe to tap directly into the three country’s natural gas reserves, thus diversifying its supply in the wake of the current energy crisis, while creating critical sources of revenue for African gas markets. Much of the estimated $13billion pipeline cost will be spent in Niger, acting as a much-needed boost for the already growing energy sector and wider economy. It will also enable Niger to monetise its own gas reserves, estimated at 34 bcm with recoverable reserves of 24 bcm. Niger already has experience in driving transnational energy infrastructure projects. Its 2011 completed Zinder based 20,000 barrels per day (bpd) refinery supplies the entire region with petroleum products. Niger currently exports refined products to countries in the sub-region, including Nigeria, Mali, and Burkina Faso. Through the completion in 2023 of the Niger-Benin pipeline, from the prolific Agadem basin in Niger to the Cotonou terminal off the coast of Benin, Niger will increase its current production from 20,000 to over 120,000 bpd. This US$2.2bn pipeline will unlock an additional Us$3bn in field development investments by Chinese major CNPC, which is the operator of the Agadem discoveries. Niger aims to become a hub for hydrocarbons, petrochemicals and associated products in West Africa and the Trans-Saharan Pipeline projects only serves to enhance this trend. The planned energy infrastructures will boost Niger’s growth and position it as a key bridge between resource rich sub-Saharan Africa and the Maghrebian and European markets. Sylva, a fortnight, confirmed that Nigeria is currently working on two plans to pass gas to Europe through Algeria and Morocco. On Nigeria replacing Russia’s supply of gas to Europe, Sylva said, he is not aware of any high-level talks with the West, but what he is aware of as the Petroleum Minister is that Nigeria wants to take its gas to Europe. He said Nigeria also signed a Memorandum of Understanding(MoU) with Algeria and the Niger Republic to accelerate this plan, highlighting that however, the Morrocco pipeline is actually at the level of studies. “We are having those kinds of conversations with Algeria. We are saying we want to build a pipeline, the trans-Saharan pipeline that will take gas all the way to Europe. We are planning how to take our gas to Morrocco. Also, so we are planning two pipelines, to Europe. “There is a lot of excess capacity, but it will take time to build infrastructure. It will also take a while, there is no spare capacity we can immediately off-take to Europe now,” he said. He stressed that, “we have not been investing in the oil and gas sector for long and we expected this (tensions with Russia) was going to happen at some point, and that there will be a gap (in oil and gas exports) “That gap cannot be filled by renewables, because we are not investing that quickly into renewables, we are not developing.” President Muhammadu Buhari, had, in March last year, launched an ambitious plan by Nigeria to entirely power its economy with gas by the year 2030. Nigeria, the sixth largest gas country and ninth in gas export, consumes very little of the resources. While Nigeria intends to leverage on the huge gas reserves to become a major gas consuming nation, Europe is turning the nation to become a major exporter of the commodity. Already, Nigeria and the European Union, EU, have commenced discussion to sustain bilateral Liquefied Natural Gas, LNG supply deal to Europe. European gas prices remain at sustained highs and Nigeria’s LNG supplies to Europe stood at 23.3 billion cubic meters, Bcm in 2021 Nigeria and the EU are to look at ‘all options’ for increasing the supply of Nigerian LNG to Europe, as Brussels continues its push to engage with its gas supply partners amid the standoff between Russia and the West over Ukraine. Concern over Russian gas supply to Europe has seen the European Commission(EC), make significant diplomatic efforts in recent weeks to seek additional gas deliveries from alternative suppliers. The EC executive vice-president, Margrethe Vestager, on February 14 in Abuja had important discussions with vice president, Yemi Osinbajo, with LNG supplies high on the agenda. “The importance of the energy relationship between Nigeria and the EU featured, while consideration of all options for increased supply of LNG from Nigeria to the EU was agreed to, following a request from the EU,” Osinbajo said. “A technical meeting on this will be convened shortly,” it said. Osinbajo was also quoted as saying. Nigeria was relieved to hear of the EU’s support on gas as a transition fuel. Nigeria is a key LNG supplier to Europe and in 2021 exports amounted to 12.63 Bcm, according to data from S&P Global Platts Analytics. The biggest buyers were Spain with 49 cargoes supplied or 4.3 Bcm of gas equivalent France (38 cargoes), Portugal (34 cargoes), and Turkey (15 cargoes), the data showed. Several LNG cargoes were also delivered last year each to Croatia, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, and the UK. Nigeria’s six-train LNG export facility has a capacity of 22.5 million mt/year (31 Bcm/year), but it is being expanded to 30 million mt/year with the addition of a seventh train. Total LNG exports from Nigeria in 2021 were 23.3 Bcm, according to Platts Analytics data, well below capacity and down from 28.7 Bcm exported in 2020. Nigerian LNG exports were curtailed last year by technical issues that prevented the rapid return of certain reservoirs shut due to the country’s OPEC production restrictions. Work to ramp up production at the shut fields had proven problematic, impacting gas supply to the LNG export plant. The lower exports come as LNG prices remain at sustained highs.