 Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai confirmed yesterday that Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni will never return as chairman of the national caretaker committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello stepped had on Monday taken over the affairs of the party in what many had considered to be a palace coup. Bello said he was acting chairman in the absence of Buni. Revealing what transpired at a meeting of governors elected on the party’s platform with President Muhammadu Buhari and before he travelled to the United Kingdom on medical vacation on Sunday, El-Rufa’i said Buni who is currently out of the country can only return as governor of Yobe State, but not as caretaker committee chairman of the governing party. Speaking on Politics Today, a daily programme on Channels Television, the Kaduna governor said Bello got the backing of President Buhari and 19 governors. He noted that the president instructed that Governor should take over the leadership of the APC. The governor noted that Buni stepped aside when he handed over to Bello, adding that the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) will ratify his removal at its meeting next week. “I can assure you that even when Buni returns to the country, he is assuming no position except as the governor of Yobe State his substantive position,” said el-Rufai. He also noted that the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) has also decided on the national secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe. LEADERSHIP had reported exclusively yesterday that Akpanudoede had on Tuesday angrily stormed out of the caretaker committee meeting presided over by the party’s acting national chairman, Governor Bello. On what led to the face-off between Akpanudoedehe and Governor Bello at Tuesday meeting of the party’s caretaker committee, El-Rufai quoted Governor Bello as saying while the committee members had moved to implement the president’s decision by setting a date for NEC meeting, the national secretary objected to the move. Noting that a member of the CECPC is a professor of Law, El-Rufai noted that the party’s CECPC will consult the Attorney General of the Federation and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) before taking its decision. He said, “When we reported to the president, he (Buhari) said Governor Bello must take over on Monday, and we must use whatever means to ensure that the convention takes place and delivered as scheduled. “Buhari said ‘I rely on you to do everything legally necessary to vacate the order and ensure Bello takes over the leadership of the party, reconstitute all the committee of the convention and ensure that 26th of March the date of the convention is sacrosanct. “Governor Sani Bello has the President backing and 19 of the 23 APC governors,” he said. The governor noted that President Buhari also asked the governors to ensure that a court order said to have been obtained with Buni’s knowledge to stop the party’s convention is vacated. He said, “It is good to have ambition, but when a politician has an ambition that can destroy the party, such ambition should be halted. “When the president got to understand this he was disappointed that people trusted with power were playing with the Constitution of the party and putting it at risk. “Someone went to court and secretly got an injunction that APC must not hold its convention, and Buni hid the injunction, kept it as a time bomb but we have unraveled it; it will be vacated.” El-Rufai noted following the president’s instruction, the APC governors will be in Abuja until the convention is delivered. He stated: “APC will not go down because of inordinate ambition of some governors. All of us will remain in Abuja until we deliver the convention and put the party on sound footing.” Confirming that Buhari has already picked a chairmanship consensus candidate, the governor recalled that the president has always had a consensus on who should be the party chairman. “The person the president endorses as chairman is from one of the states in North Central,” he said. Governor El-Rufai recalled that it was the same case with former chairmen of the party, John Odigie Oyegun and Adams Oshiomole, adding that the party will repeat the same thing at the convention billed for March 26. When asked to name the president’s consensus chairmanship candidate, he said, “The reason why I cannot tell you the president’s anointed aspirant is because we are trying to reconcile all the aspirants to step down for the consensus candidate.” He further stressed that the party normally adopts a consensus for the party’s national chairman and national secretary, while other positions are left to be contested. On zoning of the party positions, he said it will be fair to all. “I was at a meeting where the zoning was done. No doubt about the zoning and no doubt about the convention. So, in that meeting, the president said it is the fairest zoning formula that will be fair to everyone.” He said prior to the president’s foreign trip, Buhari urged them to get all the aspirants in the north-central to agree on a candidate before he returns from his medical trip. “Thirdly, he said all the state chairmen should be sworn in so that the state executive committee members can start working and be sworn in too,” El-Rufai further stated. Noting that a date for the national executive council meeting was fixed at a meeting which Buni was not present, El-Rufai said, “But one of the members of the caretaker committee, Governor Bello, was there. He was mandated to pass the resolution to others”. El-Rufai further noted that there are fifth columnists that are hell-bent on making the party lose all its seats as was the case in Zamfara State. He also regretted that some governors were not really on board with the caretaker committee, adding that they are the ones planting fake stories. He continued: “Since Sani Bello took over we have made substantial progress. Sub-committees have been formed. The earlier committee members were 1,700, which is half of the Eagle Square capacity already. This is a recipe for confusion. “We are more confident that the convention will take place. We are aware of the court order and we are taking steps on it,” he said, adding that after the convention, a date for the party primaries would be announced. El-Rufai said some of the governors took the back seat till the issue got to this point “because we were concentrating on governance thinking that those that are better at it will do the needful. “Clearly, it got to a point where the party was moving to great risk and we are glad things are taking shape. We are set to take a solid decision for the convention and the President will join us via zoom,” he stated. The governor, however, urged all the party’s supporters to be at rest, noting that the party is not at risk. “We are trying to resolve all issues in the state and even among the party elders because together we stand and divided we fall,” he added.  Buni Remains Chairman, APC Senators Insist Meanwhile, there appears to be no end in sight to the leadership crisis rocking the APC as Senators elected on the platform of the governing party yesterday insisted that Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, remains the chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The APC caucus in the Red Chamber made their position known at the end of its two-day meeting at the National Assembly complex in Abuja, declaring that there was no leadership crisis in the party. Fielding questions from journalists after the emergency meeting of the caucus, Senate leaders, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, said various issues facing the party were exhaustively deliberated with clear indication of peace returning to the APC ahead of the March 26, 2022 national convention. He stated: “These are trying times for major political parties in the country, the very reason we in the APC as Senate Caucus met for the second day running this week towards required collaboration with other stakeholders for unity of purpose in the party ahead of the coming national convention and 2023 general election. “Required strategies have been mapped out by the caucus to bring all interest groups together in making the party stronger and well positioned for the 2023 general elections. “The reported storm in the party by the media is not true as there was no leadership crisis. “Governor Buni, to us, remains the chairman of the national Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the party. “He will resume in that capacity any moment he returns from Dubai where he went for a medical check-up. “Governor Sani Bello who is acting in that capacity now is doing so to avoid a vacuum in leadership and most importantly to put in place required arrangements for the forthcoming national convention of the party 17 days from now,” Senator Abdullahi said. The meeting which lasted for about three hours and attended by the Senate president, Ahmad Lawan; his deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege; Senate chief whip, Orji Uzor Kalu, and other principal officers of the Senate, adopted a seven-point communique geared towards dousing any form of tension in the party. The APC Caucus specifically resolved to commence talks with CECPC, leadership of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) and aspirants this coming weekend.  Bello Inaugurates Convention Committee, Releases Zoning List Meanwhile, acting chairman of the APC national caretaker committee and Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, yesterday inaugurated subcommittees of the party’s national convention, assuring that the party leadership under his watch will conduct a hitch-free convention. Speaking after inaugurating the sub-committees at the APC national secretariat in Abuja, Bello said the number of some sub-committees for the convention had been trimmed, even as he noted that the March 26 date for the convention remains sacrosanct. He stated, “For those of you that have been monitoring events in the national secretariat since Monday we have started the effort to ensure that there is a free and fair convention. “We have made efforts to see a successful convention and part of those efforts was to inaugurate chairmen and secretaries of the committees in consideration of tract records and loyalty to the party. “We ask that you exhibit these qualities to ensure the success of the convention. I know a lot of our party faithful wanted in one way or the other to serve in various committees as their support or contributions towards a healthy party. However, we must be mindful that we cannot accommodate everyone in the committee. “So we trimmed down the number to workable size without undermining anyone and I think this decision is the best for our party. I want to remind you that you have to work hard to ensure that the national convention is held on the 26th of March 2022. That day is sacrosanct insha Allah.” Meanwhile, the leadership of the APC yesterday released its zoning list for the National Working Committee (NWC) positions, confirming earlier reports that it has zoned its national chairmanship office to the North Central. This is coming 17 days to the party’s elective national convention slated for March 26, 2022. A statement by the party’s director of publicity, Salisu Na’inna Dambatta, noted that the party has also zoned the national secretary position to the South West, while the South East will produce deputy national chairman (South) and South South is to take the national publicity secretary position. The North East will get the deputy national chairman (North) position. In the statement titled, ‘APC CECPC Approves Zoning Formula for National Convention’, the governing party said during its regular meeting on March 8, 2022, the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) had approved the recommendations of the committee on zoning chaired by Kwara State governor, Abdulrahman AbdulRazak, which submitted its report on Monday. Or other positions, the North Central, also got national vice chairman, North Central, deputy national secretary, deputy national legal adviser, deputy national publicity secretary, zonal secretary, zonal youth leader, zonal organising secretary, zonal women leader, zonal special leader (Persons with Disabilities – PWD), national ex – officio member South South has national vice chairman (South South), national women leader, deputy national treasurer, deputy national welfare secretary, zonal secretary, zonal youth leader, zonal organising secretary, zonal women leader, zonal special leader (Persons with Disabilities – PWD) and national ex – officio member. South West got national vice chairman, national youth leader, national physically challenged leader, deputy national auditor, zonal secretary, zonal youth leader, zonal organising secretary, zonal women leader, zonal special leader (Persons with Disabilities – PWD), national ex – officio member. South East has national vice chairman (South East), national treasurer, national welfare secretary, deputy national organising secretary, zonal secretary, zonal youth leader, zonal organising secretary, zonal women leader, zonal special leader (Persons with Disabilities – PWD) and national ex – officio member In addition to deputy national chairman (North), North East also got national auditor, national vice chairman (North East), deputy national financial secretary, deputy national women leader, zonal secretary, zonal youth leader, zonal organisig secretary, zonal women leader, zonal special leader (Persons with Disabilities – PWD) and national ex – officio member. North West got, national vice chairman (North West), national legal adviser, national organising secretary, national financial secretary, deputy national youth leader, zonal secretary, zonal youth leader, zonal organising secretary, zonal women leader, zonal special leader (Persons with Disabilities – PWD) and national ex-officio member The statement added that zonal representatives in the national caretaker committee will coordinate the process in each zone.    