Governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were conspicuously absent at the presidential declaration of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar yesterday. Instead, the governors were in Abia State for a meeting to deliberate on the state of the nation. Governor Adamu Fintiri of Adamawa State, Atiku’s home state, was also in Abia but he came from there to attend the presidential declaration in Abuja. The former vice president, for a record sixth time, declared his ambition to contest the 2023 presidential ticket of the PDP before a mammoth crowd at the International Conference Centre, (ICC) Abuja, yesterday. He had flown the party’s flag four years ago but lost the presidential contest to the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari. Some governors like Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State have also indicated their interest to vie for the top seat. Former Kwara State governor and Senate President Bukola Saraki is also in the race for the main opposition party’s presidential ticket. Declaring his ambition, Atiku said the 2023 presidential election will be a referendum on the country’s unity and progress, or a path to division and backwardness, adding that the ruling party wanted to divide the nation along political, ethnic, and religious lines. Among the dignitaries at the declaration were former Vice President Muhammad Namadi Sambo; Adamawa State governor, Umaru Fintiri; former Niger State governor, Babangida Aliyu, Chief Tom Ikimi, Senator Ben Obi, Prof ABC Nwosu, Senator Dino Melaye, Ambassador Roland Omowa and Josephine Anenih, among others. Meanwhile, contrary to the expectation of Nigerians, the PDP governors in Abia failed to state their stand on the vexed issue of zoning formula for the 2023 general election. In a communique read by its chairman at the end of their meeting, Governor Tambuwal urged leaders and members of the party to remain focused and united in order to win the election. Tambuwal said the governors reviewed “the excruciating hardship and suffering being meted out to Nigerians by a failed APC-led federal government, the near collapse of the APC as a viable political party, and the readiness of the PDP to take over and offer qualitative leadership options to rescue the nation.” According to the Tambuwal, life was much better in 2015 under the PDP than today under the APC. “The forum urges Nigerians to reject the APC, a party run undemocratically by a committee contrary to the Constitution (S.228) with Mr. President regularly issuing instructions and dictates,” he further said, arguing that “it was impossible for a party so disorganised to offer good governance to the people of Nigeria.” The governors present were Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, Adamawa; Udom Emmanuel, Akwa Ibom; Bala Mohammed, Bauchi; Douye Diri , Bayelsa; Samuel Ortom, Benue, and Ifeanyi Okowa, Delta State. Others were Godwin Obaseki. Edo; Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Enugu; Abiodun Makinde, Oyo; Nyesom Wike, Rivers, and Hon Haruna Manu, deputy governor of Taraba State. 