ThriveAgric, a fast-growing technology-driven agricultural company, has raised $56.4 million in debt funding from local commercial banks and institutional investors. The raise also included a co-investment grant of $1.75 million from the USAID-funded West Africa Trade and Investment. This latest funding follows $9 million the company raised in 2020. Over the past 12 months, ThriveAgric’s revenue has increased five-fold, with a year-on-year increase of 277 per cent in farmer numbers. The new investment will enable the company to grow its over 200,000 farmer base, and expand into new African markets, including Ghana, Zambia and Kenya. Commenting on the impact the funds will have, chief executive officer, ThriveAgric, Uka Eje, said: the new investment takes the company one step closer to fulfilling its mission of building the largest network of profitable African farmers using technology to ensure food security. “We look ahead with renewed confidence knowing that our smallholder farmers will benefit financially even more from this new investment. “Despite a volatile backdrop over the past few years, brought about by the global pandemic, ThriveAgric witnessed temporary payment disruptions to our retail crowdfunders. “However, we were able to overcome those challenges within a year and maintained company profitability. Our solid financial performance underscores investors’ faith in ThriveAgric,” Eje said. Smallholder farmers constitute over 80 per cent of the Nigerian agriculture industry. Access to finance, advisory, and markets are significant barriers. Nearly 72 per cent live below the poverty line on less than $1.90 a day. Farmers assisted by ThriveAgric can charge premium rates for their commodities, allowing them to increase their incomes up to 25 per cent. ThriveAgric co-founder Ayo Arikawe, said:  “ThriveAgric’s fundraising objectives are geared towards growth through vertical and horizontal integration. One of our goals is to be able to widen access to markets for our smallholder farmers, help to lift them out of poverty, and ultimately promote food security. “We do this by enabling them to take their produce to local and international markets. We’re thrilled and excited to receive support from such high calibre investors. Their financial backing is an essential step in fulfilling ThriveAgric’s vision to build an Africa that feeds herself and the world.” 