Alas, the All Progressives Congress (APC) national convention has come and gone. The drama that preceded the party’s most influential gathering had cast doubt in some quarters over whether the event would be rancourous or not. But that was not the case, if anything, the Eagles Square venue was a beehive of activity as party members and delegates arrived in their numbers. There was however pandemonium at the entrance gate as delegates, journalists and other guests tried to gain entrance into the venue. But the event, which was billed to start by 2:45pm after President Muhammadu Buhari, started six hours (8.pm) after when the president eventually entered the venue. It was learnt that the delay was due to finishing touches being done to the unity list in line with the consensus arrangement spearheaded by the president. Recall that the president had met with party governors, APC founding members and the chairmanship aspirants on the need to have a smooth convention based on a consensus arrangement. The split within party ranks, caused by perceived attempts by the Caretaker Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) led by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni not to hold the convention, had set stakeholders on edge. However shortly after the President arrived the event started culminating in the emergence of 77 new party officials, including a new national chairman and other members of the national working committee inclusive of the physically challenged across all 36 states. The much anticipated unity list was signed by APC governors and leaders, while zonal lists were signed by governors from the respective zones. The APC constitution was also ratified at the national convention of the party yesterday. Chairman of the election sub-committee of the convention and Jigawa State governor Abubakar Badaru, who read out the unity list, asked the delegates to declare yeah or nay for the candidates. Officials elected include: the national chairman, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu from Nasarawa State, the deputy national chairman north, Sen. Abubakar Kyari, Borno State, the deputy national chairman, south, Chief Emma Eneukwu, Enugu State and national secretary, Otunba lyiola Omisore, Osun State among others. However things took a slight twist when some adamant aspirants refused to tow the ‘party line’ and preferred to subject their popularity to votes among the delegates, in spite of the party’s agreement on consensus for all positions. Aggrieved aspirants were assuaged even though they did not give up so easily, expressing their discontent on stage. One of the positions open to contest was that of the national youth leader. The contestant, Dada Olusegun and one other aspirant had refused to back out of the race for the party’s preferred choice, Dayo Israel. Eventually, they conceded to the party. However another interesting highpoint of the event was the number of ex PDP members who became members of the new APC executives, a situation which prompted a reaction from the presidency.  Conceding To Consensus Arrangement On the eve of the convention, six other chairmanship aspirants who had vehemently opposed the consensus arrangement eventually stepped down for President Buhari’s candidate, Adamu, on Friday night. They announced their decision to quit the race yesterday in a letter dated March 25, 2022 and signed by one of them and minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume. The letter of withdrawal from the race which is addressed to chairman the APC election sub-committee of the national secretariat had the names of chairmanship aspirants, including Senator Tanko Al-Makura, Akume, Abdulaziz Yari, Senator Sani Musa Muhammed, Etsu Muhammed and Turaki Salilu Mustapha. The letter reads: “May I kindly refer to the appeal by Mr. President for the chairmanship aspirants of our great party to agree to a consensus arrangement wherein our colleague, H.E., Sen. Abdullahi Adamu is made our consensus candidate for the chairmanship position and forward letters of withdrawal from the under listed aspirants to wit: Senator Tanko Al-Makura, Akume, Abdulaziz Yari, Senator Sani Musa Muhammed, Etsu Muhammed and Turaki Salilu Mustapha.” Subsequently, the top contenders pledged loyalty to Adamu’s emergence. Al-Makura and Mustapha in separate statements promised to support his leadership of the party. This gesture, according to pundits, is a boost for the Adamu-led NWC. But how he maximizes this goodwill is another matter.  Expectations For Adamu Having been accepted as national chairman of the party, Adamu has a tall task on his hands. And he knows. After his inauguration, he promised to ensure that the party is strong and united ahead of 2023 general elections, adding he will heal the wounds in the party. Adamu asserted that the newly-inaugurated National Working Committee (NWC) would operate an open-door policy for all members of the party, saying, “I promise you here and now that we shall heal any wounds in our party. We shall effect lasting reconciliation among our members, and we shall go into the next general elections as a strong and united party.” President Buhari also set an agenda for him when he warned the new members of APC NWC to beware of imposition of candidates and moneybags who would want to influence the party. Speaking at the convention, he enjoined the new NWC members to promote internal democracy and equal opportunities and ensure that party primaries are not influenced by “highest bidders” going into the 2023 elections. Speaking at the venue of the national convention of the party, the president urged party members to remain united and strong and also support the incoming leadership of the party. Having served as chairman of the reconciliation committee ahead of the convention, Adamu understands the dynamics of the internal wranglings across the states in the party. But beyond understanding them he has to be able to mend the fences as much as possible and timely too. Recall that the ward, local government and state congresses had split the party in most states. For a chairman who will spearhead the party’s campaign for the 2023 general election, he certainly has his work cut out for him. He would preside over a presidential primary election which is already shaping up to be contentious. Same applies to the governorship primaries. APC stakeholders, under the aegis of APC Rebirth Group, implored Adamu, and other members of the executives to ensure that the party undergoes rebirth. The stakeholders, in a statement by its convener, Engr Aliyu Audu, said, “Now that the convention is over, it is time for the new National Working Committee (NWC) to hit the ground running and begin in earnest the process of giving new life to the party so that members can be re-energized for the huge task ahead of the 2023 general election.” Audu added: “Specifically, the National Working Committee must immediately Constitute a Reconciliation Committee or begin the process of reconciliation that will truly and genuinely settle all internal bickerings that may have aroused from the convention and even the ones that had bugged the party from the ward, local government and states Congresses conducted by the outgone Caretaker Committee. “While the process of reconciliation is ongoing, the party leadership must also begin a genuine process of Institutionalizing internal democracy in the party, one that will guarantee level playing field for all and sundry, especially as we move towards various primaries in the coming weeks. The party leadership must realize that President Muhammadu Buhari as the unifying factor in the APC will not remain in the saddle forever. As such, we must hasten to the need of ensuring that party members are provided all opportunities to become what they desire to become in the party without having to defer to anyone.”