A support group for the presidential bid of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, has announced that it has so far raised the sum of N67million in preparation for obtaining the Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms for him. The Director of Communications of the group, Benigna Ejimba, at a press conference stated that the target of the group was to raise the sum of N100million which it projected will be enough to purchase the forms when the All Progressive Congress (APC) fix the price for their presidential nomination form. She said they desired to notify the general public that as part of their commitment to seeing the emergence of Emefiele as the presidential candidate of the ruling APC in the forthcoming 2023 general election. She said, “as of today, we have received donations from our members of young professionals and other concerned groups to the tune of N67million and some fraction. “We are hopeful that by next week we would have succeeded in raising the sum of 100 million naira. This will enable us to purchase the APC Expression of Interest and Presidential Nomination Form which we already project that this sum will be sufficient. “We were expecting the contributions from our rice farmers’ members who Nigerians know benefited immensely from the Agricultural interventions of the CBN and have also had a bountiful harvest. Once their contributions arrive before the end of the week, we are hopeful to hit our set-out target by next week. “By that next week, we will be expecting the contributions from our Lagos-based importers whose businesses have benefited from the CBN initiatives who have indicated their interest also in supporting Mr. Emefiele. We are confident that we may even surpass the 100-million-naira target for the form.” She explained that all the monies have come from voluntary donations from their members comprising professionals, entrepreneurs, farmers of various products and others from different sectors of the Nigerian economy who strongly believe in Emefiele and those who have benefited from the various interventions in his capacity as the CBN Governor. She apologised to all other people who have expressed interests and asked them to publicise their accounts for them to make their donations, saying the ideas was not a money-making venture. She explained, “we are unable to do so because we do not wish to make our quest for his candidacy a money-gathering one. “As the CBN Governor, we understand the integrity and importance of his position; hence we would not want to embark on any mission that may bring disrepute to him or his office. “So we are currently relying on individual contributions from our existing members and hope that by the time Mr. Emefiele heeds our call and joins the race, we will extend our reach and target to a much higher sum to support his campaign in the general elections,” she added. On why they are backing the CBN Governor, she said: “We will continue to maintain that in Mr. Emefiele, we see the one man capable of succeeding our President. Mr. Emefiele represents all the characteristics we desire in a president. “In him, we see a peacebuilder who believes in the oneness and unity of our dear country. “In him, we see the one man capable of ensuring the peace, equity, and stability of our nation. He is from Ika in Agbor, Delta State, the Igbo-speaking part. This will douse the South-South quest for one more term and also satisfy the Igbo agitations for a president of Igbo extraction.”