The need for the energy transition to enable cleaner energy, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva said oil would still retain major relevance in the world energy market for another 22 years, even as gas comes in a close second. Sylva stated this at the recently concluded Nigeria International Energy Summit (N.I.E.S.) 2022, held in Abuja. For the first time in history, Africa must tackle a truly global problem, climate change. Energy transition away from fossil fuels is imperative, but there is no consensus on how to achieve this. Many of the world’s largest economies have adopted targets for net-zero emissions of greenhouse gases by 2050. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources highlighted Africa’s energy resource problems, its socio-economic implication, and the contributory impact of the energy transition on the continent. He pointed out, “The continent is indeed blessed with multiple energy sources, fossil and non-fossil fuels. Despite this, about 600 million people in Africa lack access to electricity; and about 900 million people are without access to clean cooking fuels. Coupled with the above is a current drive towards the energy transition, threatening further aggravation of energy poverty in Africa.” According to Sylvia, OPEC’s long-term projection is that oil will remain the fuel with the largest share of the global energy mix, constituting about 28 per cent of global energy requirements by 2045. Gas is expected to be the second-largest fuel in the energy mix, constituting about 24 per cent by 2045. The implication is that more investment will continue to be required in the oil and gas industry to meet these projected demands, especially in developing countries. The former Governor of Cross River State, Donald Duke argued it is ridiculous that Nigeria, which has the world’s ninth-largest proven gas reserves, has for decades been flaring hundreds of millions of cubic feet of gas daily, saying “Common sense will tell you that, if you are able to pipe all that energy, and distribute it throughout the country and localise the generation of power, we would be an energy-surplus country. Gas could be our competitive advantage.” In an article in the journal Foreign Affairs, Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo reinforced the importance of gas in Africa’s energy mix, saying “The transition must not come at the expense of affordable and reliable energy for people, cities, and industry.” Speaking on a panel session themed, ‘Energy Transition: Finance & Investment in Light of Current Realities’ executive vice president, Oando Clean Energy Limited, Ademola Ogunbanjo, explained that only a month ago the European Commission labelled nuclear and gas as sustainable energy. He said, “As oil becomes more and more of an investment pariah, gas needs to remain attractive.” Ogunbanjo explained that Oando Clean Energy Limited (OCEL), the renewable energy subsidiary of Oando Energy Resources, is positioned to support the efforts of the Nigerian government to curate an indigenous approach to the energy mix that works based on Nigeria’s and the continent’s available natural resources to grow the Nigerian renewable energy space.