A young presidential aspirant in the 2023 general elections, Olufemi Ajadi, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to use his good offices to release detained leader of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, in the spirit of true statesmanship. Ajadi in a press release made available to LEADERSHIP, and signed by his consultant, Media and Campaign Strategy, Mr Cami Ezenwa, said the nation was at a critical stage of its political life, and that any move likely to create a sense of belonging amongst its diverse people and cultures was welcome. He said Kanu’s release as one of such moves, notwithstanding the weight of his alleged offences, “would show Buhari as a listening leader, further endearing him to, not only the South-East region, but all other people involved in the agitation for regional equity. “Whereas Kanu may have erred, the President should demonstrate an understanding of his position as a father to the nation, and do what fathers do after being angry with their children for offences.” According to him, “I am hereby joining all other people of goodwill in Nigeria and international to appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari, to intervene and ensure the release of Nnamdi Kanu.  “It will show that our president considers the emotions of his children, and all his people, and has risen to answer their call for the release of the IPOB leader. We are not saying that Kanu has not offended, but we are saying that to err is human and to forgive is divine. “If God the creator forgives His children, who offend him, including all of us, then we should also learn to forgive others when they offend us.” Ajadi, a national executive member of the Youth Democratic Party of Nigeria (YDPN) said beyond the scriptural dimension, that it was a test of true statesmanship, to sometimes, show compassion and tolerance, rather than sanction and punishment. “In everyday life, when you forgive someone who has offended you, you win him over totally. But if you fight back, you have shown that there is no difference between the two of you. Personally, I am sure that Kanu and indeed all other people have learnt their lessons from this very case. “As a youth-based organisation for all Nigerians, we are ready to play any role expected of us, to ensure genuine unity in the country. We are willing to mediate between our government and the youths from across the nation, towards the common good of the nation. “A major plank of our activities is the unity of the country, the empowering of the youth and the harnessing of the diverse resources that God has blessed our country with. To be able to do this, all hands must be on deck. All sides must be represented so that the individual and regional assets that God has blessed us with, could be pulled together for the common good of our people,” he stated.