According to media reports, Onu was beaten, stripped naked, dismembered and burnt alive because she demanded a share of her father’s inheritance. Sadly, almost four months after the gruesome murder, which occurred in December 2021, her killers have not been arrested to face trial. It is sad and, indeed, suggestive of the nature of our backwardness, that in the 21st century, anyone could contemplate murdering a woman for simply demanding what is rightfully hers. Nevertheless, the murder of Onu on the account of inheritance further brings to fore the need to address some cultural practices which are skewed in favour of the male-child. In an era where most women are left without husbands or anyone to support them financially, where the few that are lucky to get married are forced to shoulder some family responsibilities, denying the girl-child a share of her parent’s inheritance is pure wickedness. We are alarmed that the state office of the National Human Rights Commission appears helpless as, according to the report, its formal complaint to the Ebonyi State Police Command over the incident had not been responded to. It is noteworthy that, sometimes, the police need to be nudged into action. Nothing, in our considered opinion, stops the NHRC from exploring all possible avenues to compel the police into acting on the matter. The greatest incentive to crime is the knowledge by the criminal that he can get away with it, when there is no deterrence.  It is Onu now, who knows the next victim? We urge the Ebonyi State government, the police command in the state and, indeed, all other critical stakeholders to get to the root of this murder because unless that is done, we may well be set for similar killings. Fundamentally, Onu is a metaphor of the dehumanising manner with which womenfolk are treated in parts of the country. Even though women like United Nations deputy secretary general, Amina Mohammed; the director-general of World Trade Organisation, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and a host of other Nigerian women have proven their mettle at home and abroad, the approach to gender issues has not changed significantly. It is sad that some parents still sacrifice the education of their female children in preference of that of their male counterparts. The girl-child is asked to stay at home and do house chores or she is married off at an early age. Tellingly, the unfair treatment meted to women appears to have been taken to the national scene as, only recently, the National Assembly rejected some gender bills including the much talked-about Gender and Equal Opportunities Bill which aims to address some of the unwholesome practices against women and other vulnerable groups. The Gender and Equal Opportunity Bill, first introduced in 2016, has suffered frustration for a record three times. The bill seeks to guarantee the rights of women to equal opportunities in employment, equal rights to inheritance for both male and female children, equal rights for women in marriage and divorce, equal access to education, property/land ownership and inheritance. It also seeks to protect the rights of widows, guarantee appropriate measures against gender discrimination in political and public life and prohibit violence against women. Essentially, in Ebonyi State where this dastardly act occurred, the citizens are mostly followers of either Christianity or Islamic faith, two dominant religions that acknowledge the right of the woman to inheritance. We are not oblivious of the fact that some queer, archaic and, hence, needless cultural practices encourage men to wholly assume total ownership of what is left by deceased parents as inheritance. The time is long ripe for all the progenitors of such cultural practices to discountenance it. We are living in a changing world with gender roles being constantly reversed. There is no reason why a woman should be denied inheritance. As for Onu, her death must not be in vain. Governor Dave Umahi, on whose shoulder lies the responsibility to protect everybody living in Ebonyi, must ensure justice is served the murderers. Umuahi can, as a matter of fact, go further by proposing a legislation in the state assembly that will eventually lead to ending this unjust cultural practice which denies women the right to inheritance.  