A key oil and gas indigenisation policy of the federal government as captured under the marginal field policy essentially aims at ensuring that the ownership and control of concessions and/or acreages are provided to Nigerians, in a bid to encourage growth in local participation in the exploration and development of oil and gas resources. Thus, the aim of the marginal field programme was to open up the upstream oil and gas sector to more indigenous participation, in a manner that positively impacts and contributes to the expansion of Nigeria’s oil reserves’ production, encourage economic development through revenue generation, promotion of indigenous participation in oil and gas sector and discouragement of the abandonment of depleting oil fields in Nigeria. A corollary to that is the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (Local Content Act) 2010 specifically enacted to promote the indigeneous participation in the Nigeria’s oil and gas industry for the purpose of improving the economic and social well being of those engaged in operating in the oil and gas industry. The Act provides for the development of Nigerian content in the Nigerian oil and gas industry, Nigerian content plan, supervision, coordination, monitoring, and implementation of the Nigerian content. No doubt, these legislations have significantly encouraged many local players to embark on asset purchase and management. The programme has seen Shell, Total, Agip, Chevron, ExxonMobil and others surrender fields that are then allocated to marginal field operators in bid rounds. The marginal field bid rounds has seen the emergence of firms like, Matrix Energy, AA Rano, Andova Plc, Duport Midstream, Genesis Technical, Twin Summit, Bono Energy, Deep Offshore Integrated, Oodua Oil, MRS, Petrogas, North Oils and Gas, Pierport, Metropole, Pioneer Global, Shepherd Hill, Akata, NIPCO, Aida, YY Connect, Accord Oil, Pathway Oil, Tempo Oil and Virgin Forest, among others winning such assets. There are key oil firms like Seplat, Aiteo, Lekoil all playing at those levels. Unfortunately, there are emerging snags that seem to limit efforts of their expansion thus threatening the main objective which government has set out to achieve. Just a few weeks ago, ExxonMobil announced an asset purchase deal with Seplat Energy The American oil major said in a well publicised statement that it had reached an agreement to sell its equity interest in its shallow-water business, Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited, to Seplat Energy, a Nigerian independent oil and gas company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Seplat Energy Offshore Limited. ExxonMobil, said that it would retain its deepwater assets, adding that the sale of MPNU supported the company’s investment strategy and Nigeria’s efforts to enhance industry participation. It said the transaction would close later this year pending regulatory approvals, according to the statement issued by the Manager, Media and Communications, MPNU, Oge Udeagha. President, ExxonMobil Upstream Oil and Gas, Liam Mallon, said, “This sale will allow us to prioritise competitively advantaged investments in our strategic assets, and it supports the Nigerian government’s efforts to grow its oil and gas operations. “We value the relationships we have spent decades building with the government and people of Nigeria, which will continue as we maximise the value from our deepwater operations.” The oil firm said when finalised, the sale would include the Mobil Development Nigeria and Mobil Exploration Nigeria equity ownership of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited, which hold a 40 per cent stake in four oil mining licences. The licences include more than 90 shallow-water and onshore platforms and 300 producing wells. But in a swift reaction, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd in a notification asserted its intention to exercise a Right of Pre-emption on the planned sale of its entire asset in Nigeria’s onshore and shallow waters. NNPC Limited,  which is the major shareholder in the Joint Ventures with MPNU, may have exercised its right of first refusal on the assets as part of a new era which will focus solely on building the long term profitability of the NNPC Ltd. However,  in another twist, Seplat in a statement refuted newspaper and social media reports that the NNPC, has exercised a right of pre-emption under the NNPC/Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited, MPNU, Joint Operating Agreement, JOA. Seplat said, “The Company wishes to clarify that the Sale and Purchase Agreement (“SPA”), earlier announced on the 25 February 2022, deals with the acquisition of the entire share capital of MPNU’s shareholders, Mobil Development Nigeria Inc. and Mobil Exploration Nigeria Inc., being entities of Exxon Mobil Corporation registered in Delaware (“ExxonMobil”). MPNU, is not a party to the SPA and continues to hold its interests, rights and obligations under the NNPC/MPNU JOA. “There are also some reports that the SPA between ExxonMobil and Seplat Energy has been terminated. Seplat Energy confirms that no event of termination has occurred, and the SPA remains valid and subsisting. “Seplat Energy is a compliant company and will continue to follow the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “This announcement is made pursuant to Rule 17.10 of the Rulebook of the Nigerian Exchange, 2015 (Issuer’s Rule).” But when LEADERSHIP sought its reaction, ExxonMobil’s Media and Communications, MPNU, Oge Udeagha, declined comment on the development. Udeagha, told our Correspondent that the company has no immediate comment to the position reported by Seplat. In a similar development, Lekoil Nigeria Limited has been locked in a protracted dispute with its parent company, Lekoil Limited, which is listed on the Alternative Investment Market, or ‘AIM’ of the London Stock Exchange. The dispute arose due to alleged corporate governance breaches by the then Chief Executive Officer of Lekoil Limited and founder of the Lekoil Group, Lekan Akinyanmi. Among the charges against Akinyanmi are his refusal to uphold the terms of the shareholding structure, which governs the relationship between the parent company, Lekoil Limited, and its subsidiary, Lekoil Nigeria Limited, and the discovery by the Board of Lekoil Limited that in December 2020, when Akinyanmi realised he was about to be fired as CEO of the parent, he entered into a parallel contract with Lekoil Nigeria to be their CEO. But what trumps all is the recent attempt launched by Lekoil Nigeria Limited, which is still led by Akinyanmi, to acquire its own parent company, using funds rightfully due to the parent by Lekoil Nigeria. The Lekoil group was formed by Lekan Akinyanmi, a Nigerian citizen who had worked previously as an investment banker overseas. In the past, Akinyanmi held the position of Associate Director at UBS Securities LLC and Vice President of AllianceBernstein LP in the United States. Lekoil was incorporated in December 2010 as the parent company with its principal subsidiary being Lekoil Nigeria. This was subsequently followed by the establishment of Lekoil Namibia and other subsidiaries in Benin and the USA which were added to the group. In 2013, the parent company, Lekoil Limited, was listed on AIM in London , which enabled it to successfully conduct an initial public offering raising US$50 million from international investors, many of whom knew Akinyanmi from his investment banking days. This was followed by further equity raises so that in total Lekoil Limited has raised in excess of US$260 million from international investors, which has been used to finance the operations of its subsidiary, Lekoil Nigeria. Lekoil Limited’s main asset is a 40 per cent equity shareholding and a 90 per cent economic interest in its subsidiary, Lekoil Nigeria. The remaining equity holding is held by Lekan Akinyanmi, an employee trust and a director’s trust. Lekoil Nigeria and in turn its subsidiaries own a number of oil and gas assets in Nigeria primarily, including a 40 per cent interest in the Otakikpo oil field (which is producing oil); and a percentage share in each of OPL 310, OPL 325 and OPL 276, which are all exploration/appraisal/development assets which require further capital if they are to be developed. Lekoil Nigeria was set up by its parent, Lekoil Limited, as a vehicle to invest in marginal fields in Nigeria, which at the time were reserved for investment by indigenous companies only. The Lekoil Group’s parent and subsidiary structure was set up this way by Lekan Akinyanmi as a means to access foreign investment to develop these fields. The Otakikpo field for instance is a marginal field. Although Lekoil Limited’s equity shareholding in Lekoil Nigeria is 40 per cent it has a 90 per cent economic interest in Lekoil Nigeria by virtue of the shareholders’ agreement dating from the establishment of the group. This means that  the parent company  is entitled to receive 90 per cent of any dividends declared, or of any capital returned to shareholders, by Lekoil Nigeria, in return for the sizeable investments they have made in the group along the way, totalling some US$260 million, which has financed operations in Nigeria to date. The shareholders’ agreement also gives Lekoil Limited certain contractual controls over Lekoil Nigeria. These include a right to appoint three directors to the board of Lekoil Nigeria, and defined board reserved matters and shareholder reserved matters. But in early 2021, the relationship between the parent company, Lekoil Limited, and  its subsidiary, Lekoil Nigeria, deteriorated. This followed the discovery by the Board of Lekoil Limited that Akinyanmi, entered into a parallel contract in December 2020 with Lekoil Nigeria to be their CEO. The Board also challenged a corporate governance breach by Akinyanmi. Following this, the Board of Lekoil Limited received a letter from Lekoil Nigeria, dated 1 April 2021, informing it that its subsidiary, Lekoil Nigeria, would act independently of its parent, Lekoil Limited, going forward, under the leadership of its “new” CEO, Akinyanmi. This led, in April 2021, to the resignation of the Non-Executive Chairman (Mr. Michael Ajukwu) as he saw “a fundamental misalignment of objectives amongst the shareholders of Lekoil Nigeria Limited” (i.e., the actions of Lekoil Nigeria made it impossible to run a consolidated group with Lekoil Limited as the parent company). Prior to this, there had always been a commonality of directors on the boards of Lekoil Limited and Lekoil Nigeria. As a general rule, the decisions of the parent naturally carried over into the decision making of Lekoil Nigeria due to the identical composition of their Boards. On 2 June 2021, Lekoil Limited dismissed Mr. Akinyanmi as CEO of Lekoil Limited and he ceased to be a board member of Lekoil Limited.   At the same time, he took up the role and indeed continues to act as a director and CEO of Lekoil Nigeria.   As at 3 June 2021, Ms. Aisha Muhammed-Oyebode remained the sole common director between Lekoil Limited and Lekoil Nigeria.   Upon her resignation from the Board of Lekoil Limited on 18 June 2021, the boards of Lekoil Limited and Lekoil Nigeria ceased to have any common directors. However, the announcement by Lekoil Limited that it has entered into a loan agreement with Savannah Energy Investments, a Nigerian based, wholly-owned investment subsidiary of Savannah Energy Plc, to support the Board’s restructuring was a masterstroke on the parent’s part in an effort to bring its wayward subsidiary into line. The loan, which is convertible to shares giving Savannah a 25 per cent shareholding in Lekoil Limited, effectively blocks Akinyanmi’s plan to takeover Lekoil Limited. Savannah Energy already has deep roots in Nigeria. Its subsidiary, Accugas Limited, is a leading supplier of gas to the domestic Nigerian market with its gas accounting for about 10 per cent of Nigeria’s total thermal power generation. It is believed that these steps will regenerate Investment in marginal asset development in the country. 