The Bank of Industry (BOI) has received the highly coveted award for the ‘International Syndicated Loan Deal of The Year’ at the Bonds & Loans Africa Awards ceremony. BOI was presented with the award yesterday, in Mount Nelson, Cape Town, in recognition of its $1 billion Syndicated Term Loan Facility successfully raised in the international market in December 2020. The managing director/chief executive officer of Bank of Industry, Mr. Olukayode Pitan, said: “this recognition highlights our impact as Nigeria’s leading Development Finance Institution committed to maximizing our developmental impact by raising and deploying the funds that enhance our capacity to support our customers.” He added that, “we look forward to intensifying our efforts to catalyse sustainable economic growth for Nigeria and the continent at large.” The exhaustive selection process for the awards involves close examination of deal size, tenor, structure, and distribution; analysis and background of the borrower and their accessibility to financing; with extra credit for deals that demonstrate high quality execution, accessing new pools of liquidity, innovative structuring, and opening-up new markets. The 2021 Bonds & Loans Africa Awards was postponed due to the disruptions caused by COVID-19, as such, the ceremony featured winners selected on performance in 2020 and 2021. Pitan acknowledged the significant role that myriad strategic partners played in the consummation of this deal in spite of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, saying, “we are especially grateful for the support of our lead arrangers, underwriters and book runners; Afreximbank, Credit Suisse A.G, Rand Merchant Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation and the Central Bank of Nigeria which provided a 100 per cent currency swap that allowed us to mitigate foreign exchange rate risks.” This award comes on the back of BOI’s successful issuance of a €750 million Senior Eurobond (the first by any African national DFI) in February 2022. In the last four years, Bank of Industry has raised about $3.8 billion from the international financial market: This includes another syndicated loan of €1 billion in March 2020; and a $750 million syndicated medium-term loan in 2018 which has been fully paid off. The Bonds & Loans Africa Awards has been recognizing the most innovative and ground-breaking deals from sovereign, corporate and financial institution issuers and borrowers since 2014. The annual event brings together the industry’s most high-profile figures thereby raising the profile of the African financial markets with the international investment community. 