Pfizer, a multinational pharmaceutical company has partnered with Medicaid Cancer Foundation (MCF) and Leah Foundation to offer free breast cancer screening for women living in Abuja, Kebbi, Niger, Kwara, Kogi and Oyo states. Senior programme manager, MCF, Ms. Hadiza Arome said the breast cancer awareness and free screening programme provided free breast cancer screening services for women, especially, those living in rural areas, adding that, the programme will ensure that all women screened, receive appropriate and timely follow-up, diagnosis, treatment, and navigation. In the same vein, the executive director, Leah Foundation, Mr. Lanre Bello said this is a life-saving intervention from Pfizer as most of the rural women had no prior knowledge of breast cancer, adding that, this is a pointer that more needs to be done in terms of advocacy and screening. Bello called on corporate organisations, religious bodies, trade unions, women associations and government to raise awareness, provide biannual screening for women and make necessary interventions to tackle the menace of cancer in Nigeria. Pfizer’s country manager, Nigeria, Olayinka Subair, said, “At Pfizer, we remain committed to improving patients’ lives. We are showcasing our dedication to health equity and reducing disparities in cancer care through the collaboration with Medicaid Cancer Foundation and Leah Foundation across the six states in Nigeria.” Pfizer’s legacy in breast cancer spans over two decades, with a strong foundation in research and development to ensure support for breast cancer patients. World Cancer Day is a day where the oncology community gets together to raise awareness around and show support for people diagnosed and living with cancer. “This is our way of drawing attention to the need for early detection in saving lives as we commemorate World Cancer Day. We are choosing to close the care gap by providing access to accurate information and knowledge about cancer to empower us all as health equity can only be achieved when everyone has the opportunity to reach his or her full health potential without barriers or limitations,” Subair added.