Kwara State governor, AbdulRahaman AbdulRazaq, has inaugurated the Cashew Nursery Management Committee (CNMC) to boost cashew production in the state. Speaking at the event, AbdulRazaq restated his administration’s commitment to cash crops production in the state. The CNMC is the brain child of  Kwara State Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the United States Department of Agriculture West Africa Pro-Cashew Project. Represented  by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Shaba Maman Jubril, the governor disclosed that the pro-cashew project is a testament of his administration’s commitment to the development of agriculture in the state. “Our partnership with private sectors like this organisation is a clear evidence of the open door policy of the present administration towards the development of agriculture and fulfilment of our promises to provide enabling environment for research, investment, businesses ,especially agro-business sub-sector,” he said. He added that his government is committed to cash crops development with a view to enhancing both domestic and foreign earnings. He noted that the state is endowed with favourable climate and good soil condition that permit mass production of cocoa, palm oil, cashew and other valuable tree crops. The governor disclosed that thehorticulturee unit  of the state ministry of Agriculture has been strengthened to raise highly yield seedlings for qualitative and quantitative production of tree crops varieties in the state. Earlier, the project manager Mcgeorge, Mrs. Kemi Omotosho, had explained that the pro-cashew project is aimed at boosting the competitiveness of West African cashew producers by improving efficiency and quality in production and trade, and as well develop coherent regional trade and investment policies for the cashew sector. She said the project, which is to develop incentives to renovate and rehabilitate cashew farms, is targeting over 10,000 small holders farmers across cluster groups in Isin, Ifelodun, Irepodun , Asa and Baruten local government areas of the state. The Country representative, Pro-Cashew Nigeria Cultivating New Frontiers in Agriculture (CNFA), Mr. Olorunfemi Oloruntoyin said one of the major challenges facing farmers in the country is the lack of access to quality inputs which is the reason the organisation is partnering the state government with a view to proffering  lasting  solution to  the identified challenge.