The group in a statement on Tuesday signed by its national president, Otunba Muyideen Olamoyegun, in Akure, the Ondo State capital, said it considered the “brazen marginalisation of the South thus far in the scheme of things outrageous”, adding that equity, fairness and justice demand that the 2023 presidency is zoned to the zone. They insisted that the APC, PDP and other political parties must pick their candidates from the South. This, the group said would further enhance balancing in the Nigerian democratic system. The group warned presidential aspirants from the zone against açcepting vice-presidential slots from any political party, saying any aspirant that accepts such offer will be treated as “Judas Iscariot” in the zone. “We state that the people of the Southern part of the country will regard any presidential aspirant from the zone that takes vice presidential slot from any candidate as ‘Judas Iscariot’. What we want is president,” the group said. Speaking over what it called “systematic infusion of apartheid” in Nigerian politics, the group added: “Southern Nigeria have competent, experienced, committed and skilled politicians who could take over from President Muhammadu Buhari and successfully steer the ship of the country, and we strongly recommend these southern aspirants to their respective parties for internal mechanisms that will be favourable to Southern part of the country.” The group also urged members of the political class to vote for any of the southern aspirants of their choice. “We wish to appeal most passionately to the electorate to vote wisely during the presidential election to secure the future of our children,” it added. Olamoyegun, in the statement, further said the group with membership drawn from different parts of the South-western states strives, not only to promote the essence of Yoruba homogeneity, but to propagate the core values of fairness, equity and justice, for which the Yorubas are reputed and respected. “It has been difficult to salvage the South from the perennial pestilence of marginalisation, because the zone was not able to speak and advance its cause with one voice against the recurrent imposition in past elections. “Political parties should focus on credible aspirants, their skills, knowledge, talents and experience that will endear them to the electorate to facilitate the progress and welfare of the people of the country,” the statement added.