Ukraine is presently on the receiving end of an unprovoked aggression by the Vladimir Putin‘s Russian administration. Outraged by what is perceived by the international community as bullying of a smaller nation by a more powerful neighbour, the reaction has been overflowing and unprecedented. The demonstration of solidarity for that beleaguered country that used to be the bulwark of the military might of the former Soviet bloc has gone beyond the imagination of many in the Western hemisphere who are championing and mobilising the resistance. Member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and their allies in the European Union, have continued to lead efforts to drum up support for that Eastern European country as it faces the brutal onslaught of Moscow’s military might. The involvement of the European Union countries and NATO is understandable. What is baffling to this newspaper is the request by some Nigerians to go to Ukraine to join the forces that are amassing against Russia. When this broke in the media, some saw it as joke just as the Ukrainian embassy in Nigeria might not have known what to make of it. When the United Nations General Assembly raised a motion in which it urged its members to raise their voices in condemning the invasion still seen by many as the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity, Nigeria and more than 140 other countries voted against Russia. That is at the level of diplomacy. Nigerian youths applying to be enlisted into the Ukrainian military was, without doubt, taking solidarity a bit too far. The interest of the Nigerian youth volunteers, about 400 of them as at the last count, was in response to a call by Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelensky, urging people around the world to join the fight. The federal government had to step in to stop what it saw as an ill-advised move by some Nigerian youths to fight as mercenaries in Ukraine. Like the proverbial city under siege, while Nigerians in Ukraine are struggling to return home, and many Ukrainian nationals are moving out of the troubled country, these so-called Nigerian volunteers are literally begging to get in. We commend the federal government for stepping in to check what, in our opinion, would have been a suicide mission. But the government should also use the development to reflect on the situation in the country whereby its youth are weltering in confusion, despair and frustration. It is obvious, in our view, that those Nigerian youths are not going to Ukraine because they love that country so much and would not have minded dying for it. From all indications, they see it as an escape out of the challenges this country is confronted with. It is easy to conjecture, in our opinion, that those volunteers are part of the army of young Nigerians seeking the slightest opportunity to leave the country. Interestingly, as though it could notice that the motive of some of the volunteers was not primarily altruistic, the Ukraine embassy in Nigeria told those who were willing to travel to Ukraine to fight Russian forces to provide $1000 for flight ticket and visa. That was even before the government intervened. We urge the government, as embarrassed as it must have been by the willingness of those volunteers to take that risk, if, indeed, it was a risk, to dare to revisit the issues that make young people in Nigeria to always want to leave the shores of this nation. The government should be interested in knowing why the same youths are not keen on volunteering to fight the terrorists, bandits and kidnappers that are making life a living hell for most Nigerians. It is not unlikely, presumably, that some of them are university students who might have seen Ukraine, with all the crisis it is going through, as having a better educational opportunity than what is available in Nigeria. At least, they might have told themselves that they would not have to spend endless years in search of the proverbial golden fleece. As we go to press, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is on a warning strike. From available records, certificates obtained from Ukrainian institutions are recognised internationally. Can our leaders beat their chest and claim that such honour is accorded degrees from Nigerian universities after those endless years? The volunteers must also have looked at the job opportunities open to them in Ukraine which could also provide a leeway to other East European countries. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) is managing to track the trend of unemployment in Nigeria where jobless youths who have no connections are required to pay bribes amounting to hundreds of thousands of naira to get employed. Sadly, though, coughing out such volumes of cash is not a guarantee that the job will be made available. In our considered opinion, these are some of the considerations underpinning the drive among the young ones to seek greener pastures off shore. The government must do the needful to bring to an end the wastage of its most valuable resource. Those youths are needed more at home. Not in Ukraine. Not anywhere else.  