The decision by the Redeemed Christian Church of God( RCCG) to create a directorate of politics has stirred the hornets’ nest. The move was seen by some political commentators as political machinery to realize the presidential ambition of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) Dele Momodu has raised the alarm saying it was skewed against people like him, a member of the church. A columnist, Farooq Kperogi also wrote a stinging reaction to the memo. His write up if not carefully managed is capable of igniting a serious religious war in the country, especially in the north. National leader of the All Progressive Congress ( APC) and a frontline presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu also called Muslims to establish something similar to what RCCG did. In a country where the issue of religion is a tad too sensitive, I think we are on a dangerous path here. No doubt, we cannot separate religion and politics in Nigeria. We heard stories that Christians in Lagos demanded a Christian governor in 2015 that was why Akinwummi Ambode emerged as governor and a Christian was also brought in 2019 to complete his term. In some states in the north with a sizeable number of Christians, it is taboo for a Christain to be governor. Unless we want to deceive ourselves religion is intertwined with politics in Nigeria. People are endorsed and campaigned for in churches and mosques in Nigeria. It is the norm. Capacity, integrity, and track records don’t matter. Before we light the fire of religious war in this country, can we please tone down on the divisive and inciting commentaries? Meanwhile, last week Rivers state governor, Nyesom Wike and his Edo counterpart, Godwin Obaseki treated us to some comic relief. You can never be bored in this country as our political actors keep dishing us comedies week in week out. The fight is not usually about the economy or making the life of the ordinary Nigerian better, it is always about their ego. Just when we thought the comedy was over, Ebonyi Governor, Dave Umahi threw a nuclear weapon in the direction of Wike . In case you missed it, here is what he said “ If the people that crucified Christ knew that he would bring salvation to the whole world, they wouldn’t have done that. The hatchet man that boasted is likened to Judas Iscariot. “You heard him on Channels boasting that he is behind… a mere man that depends on the breath of God, I pity illiteracy, it’s a shame. You are boasting to remove another governor, which qualifies you, just because you are packing money that is a public fund, not intellectual material but just packing money from public funds and you are boasting about it. “Otherwise, who were you? I became a billionaire at the age of 25, I have worked all my life and I have asked him to come for public debate. I do not commission a 3.4-kilometer road, I commission a 35-kilometer road, I commissioned twin flyovers running to one kilometer. “I commission megaprojects with little resources. So if he says he has done well and he is Mr this or that, let him come for a public debate with me, let’s start with our childhood. So I’m not disturbed.” Wike that I know is already preparing his missile and I know he will not disappoint. Watch out for part 2. Meanwhile, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar for the sixth time declared his intention to contest the presidency. But this time he is swimming against the tide as there is a consensus that power should shift to the south in 2023. I like his guts and determination. But will he succeed this time? his arguments about zoning in the PDP are genuine and you can’t fault them. 