The federal government has said it will take the bull by the horn to drive technology and innovation in order to attain a reasonable level of self-reliance and national security through Science Technology and Innovation (STI). The overseeing permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, Idowu Afe, said this in his opening remarks during the 20th meeting of the National Council for Science Technology (NCSTI) held in Abuja yesterday. The NCSTI is the highest decision making body for STI in the country and the theme of the meeting “Achieving Nigeria’s Global Competitiveness through Application of Science, Technology and Innovation (STI).” It also aimed at mobilising Nigerians towards achieving national objectives of commercialising Nigerian products to become competitive in the global market. “Technology is the cornerstone of progress and the basis of advanced development which Africa is in dire need to move the continent to a higher level,” Afe said in a statement yesterday. He stated that the ministry has a new mandate which is to facilitate the deployment of STI and to enhance socio-economic development of the country, stressing that the country can only make a difference in her search for economic diversification by not only nurturing indigenous technology but creating new technology that will help improve its productivity. He further stated that President Muhammadu Buhari had committed to invest in the development of STI by approving 0.5 per cent  of the nation’s GDP for research, development and Innovation for the purpose of adoption of Science Technology and Innovation in National life. He stated that as a way forward, several policies have been developed by the Ministry to drive STI, and the policies he said, will be implemented through the collaboration of the state government in making sure that STI agenda is on the top priority to the 3 tiers of Government. He also said the aim and objective of these policies is focused on commercialization, research done by investors and inventors in order to create job and reduce poverty. He also added that the Minister Ogbonnaya Onu and the Minister of state Mohammed Abdullahi have resolved to work round the clock to drive the innovation agenda of the ministry despite the challenges of funds through the strategy implementation of the Executive Order 0.5 and the development of policies that focused on effective competitiveness. This, he said will lead to the attainment of the circular economy, skilled development, health services, security, emerging markets and human wellbeing.