No fewer than 480 building collapsed in Lagos State alone in the last 44 years,  even as the Lagos state government is set to enforce Occupiers’ Liability Insurance, LEADERSHIP learnt. When these disasters occurred, the pressure had always been on the state government to compensate the victims which, in most cases, overstressed  that purse of the state government. To relief government of this financial burden, the Lagos state government is partnering the insurance industry, through the Nigerian Insurers Association(NIA) to ensure that these risks are transferred to the insurance companies, thereby, allowing government to concentrate its scarce resources on social and infrastructural development. Speaking at a press briefing after the ‘Stakeholders Meeting On Compulsory Insurance(Public Buildings)’ in Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, yesterday, the director general/CEO, Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr. Lanre Mojola, said, the Lagos State government  will continue to step up its responsibility in ensuring that Lagosians are safe and protected through the implementation of the Occupiers’ Liability Insurance. Mojola, who said, there is the need to enforce insurance of different public buildings, noted that, over 480 buildings have collapsed in Lagos State in the last 44 years.  Many times when this dangerous disasters occurred, he said, the government is almost at the last resort to compensate the victims. Mojola noted that, there was the need to spread the importance of insurance, adding that, the commission had the mandate to issue safety compliance certificates across board and one of the prerequisite was to have Occupiers Liabilities Insurance Policy. He said the state government already warehoused data of most public buildings across the state, stressing that, none of these buildings would be issued Safety certificate unless they procure Occupiers’ Liability Insurance. For now, he said, the agency alongside the insurance industry will be haveing Stakeholders’ engagement while raising awareness on this insurance, such that, when enforcement starts, nobody would be caught unaware. On her part, the director general, Nigerian Insurers Association(NIA), Mrs. Yetunde Ilori said, Occupiers Liability Insurance covers third parties using a public building either on lease or rent. She said, the owner of the property is to pay this insurance premium to cover mishaps that may occur while third parties were using such facility. stated that, the premium is meager compared to the magnitude of the loss, noting that, ‘prevention is better than cure which is a proactive approach that will cost less.’ She noted that, this iInsurance policy covers both minor and major bodily injuries, death or other mishaps while using such insured properties, promising that, the insurance companies will take over such expenses, while in the case of death, the family of the deceased would be compensated. He assured Lagosians and the general public that insurance industry has improved tremendously in claims payment, promising that, any claim arising from the Occupiers Liability Insurance, among other insurances, would be treated with utmost importance. At the end of the Stakeholders meeting, participants agreed there was the need for Occupiers Liability insurance. In a communique issued at the end of the meeting, it was  concluded that “there  had over the years been, numerous accidents and incidents such as natural disasters, building collapses, fires, explosions that have resulted in injuries, permanent disabilities, loss of lives and property. “To protect Nigerians and their businesses from vagaries in the event of unfortunate incident leading to injury, property damage or death. The Federal Government through various Acts of parliament have over the years promulgated laws making seven insurance policy compulsory across the federation. “However, due to several factors, some of this compulsory insurance laws have not been fully implemented. As such when dangerous occurrences and disasters happen, the citizenry look up to the government for compensation.” Stating that Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003 stipulates that public buildings must be adequately insured ostensibly to cushion the impact and reduce burden and liability on property owners/government, they added that, there was the need to support this initiative to achieve the noble objective for which the compulsory insurance act on building was enacted. To this end, they agreed to digitise the purchase of occupier’s liability insurance in Lagos State while also creating awareness about benefits accruable from making compulsory occupiers liability building insurance the culture in the state. “Laws passed by the federal government need to be domesticated by the various states and enforce them. Continuous awareness and sustenance after implementation of the compulsory occupiers’ liability building insurance culture in Lagos State. “The parley appreciates the Lagos State Government for this initiative, especially the Lagos State Safety Commission. The insurance industry in Nigeria has the capacity to indemnify all the liabilities that arises as a result of risk involved because insurance is a global business,” they pointed out.