It certainly took diplomacy and tactful maneuvering to arrive at the peacefulness that seems to have returned to the APC. Much of that sagacity goes to President Muhammadu Buhari and his governors. For special mention would be Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger who stood in for Governor Buni and was able to achieve a lot of milestones within his less than two week stay as Acting Caretaker Chairman. He must indeed have had the midas touch! There are many clear indications to this positive outlook. The March 26 National Convention of the party is going ahead as planned. Indeed convention subcommittees have been named and inaugurated. Further, there are many assurances coming from none other than the Chairman, All Progressives Congress Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) Gov Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State. Even before his assurances, the leader of the party, President Muhammadu Buhari had given his seal of approval for the convention. c The Yobe State governor has also met with ten members of the All Progressives Congress Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee under his leadership, on Thursday, at the Yobe State Governor’s Lodge Asokoro, Abuja. Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, who was acting Chairman of the team while Governor Buni was away in Dubai led other members of the Committee to the meeting. Speaking with newsmen at the end of the meeting, the Yobe State Governor said the focus of their closed-door meeting was on preparations towards the national convention. He assured the party faithful that the March 26 date would not be aborted. Hear him: “You know that since I travelled the party has not stopped. His Excellency has done very well in managing the affairs of the party. We are here to discuss the issues going forward. We are now at the finishing line in the preparations for our national convention which is at hand on March 26. We are putting heads together to achieve this task ahead. I want to emphasise that the March 26 national convention is sacrosanct.” Also speaking, the Niger State governor said his team made a lot of progress to ensure a seamless convention while his Yobe State counterpart, Governor Buni was outside the country. “For the past one week, I have been acting as the chairman of CECPC and what I can tell you is that we made lots of progress towards our convention like we saw in the inauguration of the state chairmen, adopted some of the zoning formula, and some of the decisions of the CECPC taken before he left the country. I can tell you for free that in the last one week, we have ensured that we are good to go for the convention.” The sub-committees for the March 26th APC National Convention have the endorsement of the party leadership and stakeholders, indicating that things are moving in the right direction for the party. The issue of zoning is also going well for the party. Recently, the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) approved the recommendations of its committee on zoning arrangements. According to the approved recommendations, the APC, zoned the position of its National Chairman to the North-central geopolitical zone ahead of the March 26 National Convention. However, despite this zoning arrangement that domiciled the national chairmanship position in North Central zone, some national chairmanship aspirants from other zones declared interest for the position. The national chairmanship aspirants include; former deputy national chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Saliu Mustapha, former governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-Makura, former governor of Borno State, Ali Modu Sheriff, former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and senator representing Niger East senatorial district, Mohammed Sani-Musa. Others are former governors of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, Bauchi State, Isa Yuguda, Borno State, Kashim Shettima, Gombe State, Danjuma Goje, minister of special duties and inter-governmental affairs, George Akume, Sunny Moniedafe and Mohammed Saidu-Etsu. Majority of the chairmanship aspirants are from North Central in line with the party’s zoning arrangement. Others outside the North Central are former governors of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, Bauchi State, Isa Yuguda, Borno State, Kashim Shettima, Gombe State, Danjuma Goje, and former governor of Borno State, Ali Modu Sheriff, who are from the North East. Not a few eyebrows were raised by the presence of these North East APC chieftains in the race. The anomaly is being corrected as two terms governor of Borno State, Ali Modu Sheriff announced that he was withdrawing from the race. Sheriff, who spoke at a news conference in Abuja, said he withdrew from the race to respect the party and President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to zone the position to the North Central. He added that he decided to withdraw from the race as a party man in respect of the rule of law and the decision of the leaders of the party. “I am sure that most of you have been following the trends of activities of our party, the APC within the last 10 days or so. “The party has taken a position that the position of its national chairman should go to the North Central, meaning it is exclusively zoned to contestants of the zone. “The President is the leader of the party and he has taken a position. I have always told you that I will contest if the position is zoned to my zone. “That has been my statement always, and today they have taken a position. I respect the president as a person and as a president, he is my leader, therefore, I do not want to oppose him in any way or form,” he said. The former governor’s withdrawal from the race is a message to other aspirants to adhere strictly to the APC zoning arrangement. It is a position that is bound to strengthen the party and bring sanity, and stability to the ruling party. Another contentious issue that has been resolved is the legal landmine laid on the road to the March 26 National Convention. A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, sitting at Kubwa, recently, vacated the order of interim injunction that barred the APC, from going ahead with its planned national convention. The interim order followed a suit that was lodged before the court by an aggrieved member of the party, Salisu Umoru. The plaintiff had among other things, prayed the court to direct the APC and its Chairman Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni, to halt further action on the planned convention, pending the resolution of legal cases involving the party. Now that it has become obvious that the March 26 National Convention will hold, it is expected that the party leadership will conduct a convention that is in line with the constitution and the Electoral Act 2022. If the conduct of party activities follow the due process, even the losers would be quick to congratulate the winners. With the consensus option now enshrined in our law, particularly the Electoral Act 2022, if the consensus option is adopted by the party, it should be with adherence to the New Electoral Act. In fact, whatever option the APC stakeholders choose, it should be executed in line with the party’s constitution as all as the Electoral Act. As a ruling party, whatever affects APC, affects the government and whatever affects government, affects the governed and the whole country. That is why many Nigerians would like to see APC conduct a legit and democratically sound convention so that after the emergence of new party officials, there would be less rancour to distract the APC government from good service delivery! Aluta Continua!