Nigeria’s total domestic gas demand requirement (DGDR) now stands at 4.482 billion standard cubic feet per day, even as the country’s proven natural gas reserve rose to 209.5 Trillion Cubic Feet (TCF) as at Jan. 1, 2022. Chief executive of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA)  Mr Farouk Ahmed revealed these this on yesterday. Ahmed, explained in a statement, that the DGDR requirements were jointly determined by all the relevant stakeholders, and was transmitted to the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) on Tuesday. Breakdown of the daily  DGDR showed that the power sector is pegged at 2.324 billion standard cubic feet per day (BSCF/D); the gas-based industries was fixed at 1.125 billion standard cubic feet per day while the commercial sector set at 1.034 billion standard cubic feet per day bringing the total Domestic Gas Demand Requirement was 4.482 billion standard cubic feet per day. “The Determined Domestic Gas Demand requirement (DGDR) for the strategic sectors for the year 2022 as presented below is transmitted to Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission for prescribing and allocating the Domestic gas Delivery Obligation among all lessees as stipulated in the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) 2021.”The Authority added that the stakeholders consulted include gas producing companies, gas transportation companies, gas offtakers and key regulators such as the NUPRC and Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC),” he said. NNPC Records $224.29m Proceeds From Crude Oil Gas Export Speaking earlier, at the 2022 Nigeria International Energy Summit (NIES) in Abuja, Ahmed said the new proven gas reserves figure represents a major increase of 2.97 TCF in proven natural gas reserves representing 1.42 percentage increase from the 206.53 TCF recorded on Jan. 1, 2021. Ahmed, represented by Mr Ogbugo Ukoha, Executive Director, Distribution Systems, Storage and Retailing Infrastructure, NMDPRA, said the Nigerian economy had been projected to experience a growth of 2.1 to 2.5 per cent through 2022. He said the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) would expand between 2.9 to 3.5 per cent as projected by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, adding that this progress would be driven by energy. Ahmed said: “Thankfully, Nigeria is endowed with enormous petroleum resources currently put at 37 billion Barrels of Crude oil reserves and 209.5 TCF of Natural Gas reserves as at January 2022. “These resource size puts Nigeria at an enviable position within the comity of global hydrocarbon producers. “Even in this era of global energy transition the oil and gas sector still remains pivotal to the Nigerian economy since it provides the needed cash flow for the functioning of other sectors of the economy but for how long?” According to him, with the global push for energy transition, Nigeria is racing against time to derive maximum value from its hydrocarbon resource and secure its energy future. He said there was need to vigorously contemplate Nigeria’s energy strategies, which was a key tool for economic liberation and national development taking into advisement the shift in demand and clamour for cleaner fuels. Ahmed said: “It is imperative that going forward all stakeholders must deliberately adopt strategies that embolden and underpin these three core principles. “Adoption of low carbon technologies across all operations in the oil and gas value chain, deepening and penetration of natural gas utilisation domestically to increase energy sufficiency and reduce energy poverty and invest conscientiously in cleaner fuels and renewables.” He said the authority was committed to creating an enabling environment for investments in the midstream and downstream space by encouraging industry participants through its regulatory service instruments.