The Eagle Square venue of the All Progressive Congress (APC) national convention was on Saturday taken over by a mammoth crowd of women, youths, young professionals, and other Nigerians who in their thousands donned Emefiele branded apparels, led by the APC League of Young Professionals, Ethnic Youth Leaders’ Council, and the Emefiele Support Group. The groups were demanding that the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, contest the presidency in 2023 general election. Addressing journalists, the group reiterated the need for a worthy successor for President Muhammadu Buhari while claiming that Nigeria cannot afford to miss the golden opportunity of electing a financial expert and globally renowned Economist like Emefiele at this opportune time in the nation’s history. Mallam Kabir Buba, who spoke on behalf of the groups, stated that “such a successor must be a professional, loyal to the President, a technocrat, a patriot, and detribalized Nigeria, one who has been part of the progress recorded in this administration, a less controversial leader. Most importantly, a unifier and peacebuilder, someone to douse the south-south quest for one more term and satisfy the Igbo agitations for the presidency.” According to the group, Emefiele fits the bill and is the man to continue, consolidate and expand the progressive legacies of Mr. President. The group leaders emphasised the CBN Governor’s patriotism and his irrepressible commitment to the growth and development of the Nigerian economy, which makes him a worthy successor to the President. As an experienced Economist with more than 26 years of commercial banking experience, Emefiele is well equipped to place Nigeria amongst developed and wealthy nations in the world. They insisted his recorded achievements were too many to mention. Still, they reemphasised that Emefiele, having worked in the two political divides, appointed by PDP, and retained by APC as the CBN Governor, has continued to show great dedication and commitment regardless of political alliances. “Over seven years as the CBN Governor, he has saved Nigeria twice from economic recession and created initiatives that target job creation with over 7 million jobs already created, poverty eradication, economic diversification, development of the Agro-sector, economic resilience, and productivity by promoting manufacturing and SMEs,” Buba claimed. For them, he is the man who understands the country’s needs and is already a part of the recorded progress in this administration. They then called on President Muhammadu Buhari to endorse Emefiele and urged all APC leaders and Delegates to be ready to elect the man they believe checks all the boxes on what Nigeria needs in a President.