Ebonyi State government has described as satanic blackmail statement credited to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state alleging that, the state governor, Chief David Umahi has withdrawn the sum of N6.7bn from different bank accounts of the state to finance his case following his sack by the Federal High Court, Abuja. The state government noted that there is no iota of truth in the claim by the PDP describing it as false and malicious. The state PDP had through its Lawyer, Nkemakolam Okoro petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) claiming that  Umahi had within one week withdrawn the amount from different banks and urged the commission to investigate him. Reacting to the allegation, the commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Barr. Uchenna Orji, said that the trending petition addressed to EFCC is absolutely and irresponsibly false, malicious and nothing but a serial of the politically calculated attempt by PDP to discredit the achievements and integrity of the governor. “The desperados are out to damage the hard-earned reputation of the governor and the integrity of the state government and to attack the credibility of the outcome of the dispensations of all institutions involved in ensuring that justice is done in all the legal actions framed up by PDP to distract the ever performing administration of governor Umahi, especially to cause him distractions in his intention to run for the presidency come 2023. “We further categorically state that the petitioners acted libelously and unruly in their contentions on the status of judgement-effect in the matter of defection between PDP and Umahi as it is not in doubt that he is the subsisting governor of Ebonyi State both in law and in fact. “We rebuke the allegations of ‘looting of Ebonyi state government’s money’ made by the PDP against our transparent administration as a satanic blackmail that has no iota of truth”. The state government also urged the commission to investigate any other allegation of financial impropriety raised by the PDP and to please cause necessary sanctions against the petitioners for false and fake information if their allegations are not established. “Members of the public are enjoined to discountenance this trending petition as one of the series of lies from the forces who are intimidated by the rising and acceptable performance credentials of governor Umahi,” he said.