On Saturday March 26, 2022 all eyes would be at the Eagle Square venue of the ruling All Progressives Congress ( APC) national convention. It would mark a turning point in the leadership challenge that bedeviled the party for which the governor of Yobe State, Malam Mai Mala Buni was recruited by the party’s major stakeholders to stabilize. Also, the successful conduct of the national convention would mark the crowning glory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), led by Governor Mai Mala Buni. The road to coming Saturday’s convention had not been smooth. There had been booby-traps and landmines laid by those who felt shortchanged after Adams Oshiomhole led NWC was shown the way out after its disastrous management of APC’s victory in 2015 and APC leaders who lost out in the nationwide state congresses conducted by the CECPC. Although the congress was generally adjudged to be free and fair but not a few of the stakeholders felt cheated. Many aggrieved members headed to the court to challenge the emergence of their state executives, while others laid siege on the national secretariat of the party using the courts to stop the national convention. There were also those who were not happy about the body language of the leadership of the CECPC which they considered threat to their preferred presidential aspirant. However, the road to Saturday’s convention actually started in June 25 2020, the National Executive Council (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by President Muhammadu Buhari, dissolved the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, and appointed the governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni as the new caretaker committee chairman. A statement by Femi Adesina, special adviser on media to President Muhammadu Buhari, said the emergency NEC meeting adopted all the recommendations by President Buhari, and appointed Governor Mai Buni, as Caretaker National Chairman, while Senator John Akpanudoede was designated Caretaker National Secretary. Buni was also appointed as the APC Caretaker Chairman and chair of an Extraordinary Convention to be held at a later date. That later date never materialized for obvious reasons until this coming Saturday. Some of which included the opposition faced by the committee by those who did not like the change of guard at the APC national secretariat. Despite the opposition the Buni-led caretaker committee moved on and eventually conducted the local government and state congresses. The fallout from the states was huge and the division created was impactful. To address the concerns of the aggrieved members the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni in September 2021, approved the composition of a National Reconciliation Committee for the Party. The earlier reconciliation committee set up under Adam Oshiomhole leadership had failed woefully. The National Reconciliation Committee was chaired by the former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, with former deputy governor Oyo State, Otunba Moses Alake Adeyemo as secretary. Other members of the committee were former Enugu State governor, Sullivan Chime, former speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, Oluranti Adebule, a former deputy governor of Lagos State and Others. In late January this year the National Reconciliation Committee of the APC said it has received 47 petitions from members since its appointment. The committee stated this while submitting its interim report to the leadership of the party in Abuja. Adamu said apart from the 47 petitions before the committee, more are being expected from the aggrieved members of the party. He said more members are still aggrieved. As a result of this, he said, his “ team cannot be absolute that they have flawlessly delivered their mandate to the party and hinged their assessment on the final decision of the caretaker committee.” “We have submitted our interim report. Like we said when presenting the report, that there is still work to be done. Reconciliation is a work in progress. And we cannot pretend that we have taken care of every little thing that has come before us. But by the time the final report is ready, then we will be able to give you the actual report,” Adamu had said while answering questions from journalists. Aside from addressing disputes in some state chapters of the APC, the panel was asked to reconcile members of the chapters where the party has been polarised, notably in Ogun, Osun, Gombe, Kwara, among others. Like Adamu admitted they could not reconcile all aggrieved party members, however there is now consensus that the party is united enough to go ahead with its national convention. In January 18, the APC, confirmed February 26 as the date for its National Convention. Until then, the date had largely been based on speculation from political actors and unconfirmed sources to the media. Barely six days to the February 26, National Convention, the Forum of Aspirants for the convention had written the Gov. Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC, saying the February 26 date is no longer feasible and should be postponed. The letter, which was signed by Barr. Maxwell Yakubu Gowon, an aspirant for national youth leader and Chairman of all aspirants forum, and Hon. Mohammed Bala Mohammed, aspirant for national secretary who also doubles as Secretary for the Forum; also faulted the Senator Abdullahi Adamu reconciliation committee report, which they described as worsening the situation in the party, rather than proffering solutions. On February 21, the (APC) said its national convention slated for February 26, 2022, will not hold on the date. The APC instead disclosed that it has scheduled its zonal congresses to hold on March 26. APC announced its decision in a letter of the party to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “This notice supersedes our earlier notice for National Convention referenced APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/22/14 this is predicated on the evaluation of our Party Constitution,” APC said in the letter signed by the party’s National Secretary Sen. John Akpanudoedehe and Caretaker Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni. With the settled date of March 26, nobody expected that there would be any doubt about the convention. Few days to the convention the chairman of the caretaker committee travelled to Dubai for medical reasons and duly handed over to his vice, the governor of Niger State Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello. A seismic of events that could have torpedoed Saturday’s convention began to happen. On March 7, the media was awash with the story that President Muhammadu Buhari, has allegedly approved the removal of the Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, as the Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party and in his stead, appointed his Niger State counterpart, Abubakar Sani Bello. Not even the clarification by Bello that he was standing in for Buni could dispel the falsity of the story. The narrative that Buni had been removed grew a life of its own when the governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai appeared on Channels Television watch by millions of Nigerians and indeed the world emphasizing that Buni would never return back to his seat as chairman of APC and can only go back to his governorship seat in Yobe State. El-Rufai insisted that President Buhari approved the change of guard at APC national secretariat. A few days later the picture of Buni in London with President Buhari surfaced and avalanche of actions by President Buhari restored sanity. Amid the leadership uncertainty Buhari wrote APC governors and warned against Buni’s removal. “……all members of the Governors’ Forum and their followers should desist from any behaviour or utterance that will likely lead to disunity in the ranks of the party, and ultimately jeopardise the transition to the convention,” the president wrote. If all goes well on Saturday as many predicted it would, it will be thanks to the perseverance of the leadership of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and the support the committee got from the national leader of the party, President Muhammadu Buhari. 