The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), on Thursday, disclosed that Chinese nationals smuggled into the country, N37.8million used shoes, already declared as contrabands. The NCS unit also intercepted eight trucks of foreign parboiled rice smuggled into the country from the neighbouring Benin Republic. Speaking while displaying the items seized in the last four weeks, the coordinator, comptroller of Customs, Strike Force Unit, deputy controller, Mohammed Yusuf, said the service was on the trail of the Chinese nationals that brought the contrabands into the country. According to him, the smuggled 663 sacks of fairly used shoes were recovered from a warehouse along the Lagos-Shagamu expressway, and the warehouse was allegedly owned by Chinese. Yusuf, while displaying the seized items, however, put the total value of goods impounded in the month under review at N373.63 million. He said, “Investigations carried out by my men revealed that the Chinese owners of the warehouse where the fairly used shoes were recovered are presently on the run, but, there are effort to ensure their arrest.” He also disclosed that the warehouse has been sealed, adding that anyone who broke the seal would be arrested and charged in line with the Customs and Exercise Management Act (CEMA). Giving account of the seized goods, he said: “I am happy to note that within the period of four weeks, the reconstituted strike force team A, collected N648.3million revenue through demand notices. It also made a seizures worth a total Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N373.6million. “I want to reiterate, very sternly, that we don’t believe in settling down before executing our task in a sensitive assignment as this. Smugglers who thought they could take advantage of the recent changes to carry out their unlawful trade were disappointed. “It is pertinent for me to advise importers, licensed customs agents and freight forwarders to imbibe and always operate on good business etiquette by making sincere declarations all the time. “With us on the ground, there will be no hiding place, and for those wishing to cut corners, they should always aquaint themselves and be guided by policies of the Federal Government and be abreast with the import and export prohibition lists. We will not take ignorance as an under any guise,” he added. Meanwhile, the unit also intercepted eight trucks of foreign parboiled rice smuggled into the country from Benin Republic. Yusuf said the smuggled rice and other contraband were intercepted along the nation’s borders and warehouses across the state. The items seized, according to Yusuf, were 3 by 20ft containers of timber worth, N177.7million; 1000 foreign smuggled rice, with Duty Paid Value of N43.2million; 3,143 pieces of used tyres worth, N75.4milion, used clothes worth N33.8million. Others were 663 sacks of used shoes worth N37.8million, 44 sacks of donkey skin, N2.42million and 137.3kg of Canabis Sativa worth, N13million. He said, “we are working 24 hours from day one and they have us to contend with any time they dare to carry out their illicit activities either at night or in the day. I am happy to declare that our operatives are relentless and uncompromising as far as this task is concerned. “This is just the beginning of heated anti-smuggling action which we have embarked upon in the entire South West area of the country. “We are ready to run smugglers out of town with the full support and encouragement of our CGC, Col Hameed Ibrahim Ali, Rtd.
This task is aimed at protecting our national economy and preventing dangerous importation as well as exportation that contradicts the law. “Our patrolling and interdiction capacity is recharged for round the clock operation against smugglers and anyone attempting to circumvent the due process of import and export.”