Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim has said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent into law of the Electoral Act would now make elections more transparent and guarantee that the peoples’ votes will count. In a statement issued by his media office in Abuja, Olawepo-Hashim, a global energy executive and 2019 presidential candidate, said history was made on Friday February 25, when Buhari signed the 2022 Electoral Bill into law, adding that it would allow Nigerians exercise their franchise through a transparent electoral system that reflects their will. He noted that the Act would ensure transparent elections and truly reflect the will of the people which has been a challenge in Nigeria since the return to Democracy in 1999. “Elections were massively rigged in 2003 and 2007. Towards 2011 a slow process of electoral reform started that saw some significant improvement in 2015 which sadly relapsed in 2019. “The effect of public perception that the electoral system is not clean has for long been increasing voter apathy in our country. “Credible periodic election is a hallmark of democracy and it is the vehicle of expression of sovereignty of the Peoples’ will.” He explained that democracy is not just about building roads, providing electricity, water and police service, adding that efficient and benevolent authoritarian regimes sometimes perform those services better. “Essentially, democracy is about the right of the people to choose who governs them through a transparent electoral system that reflects their will. “Credit for the signed law must be given to the relentless pursuit of Nigerian people of higher Ideals of democracy expressed through the work of various civil society organisations and the media who worked hard for the Act, the National Assembly that conveyed the wishes of the people and President Muhammadu Buhari who has written his name in Gold by giving assent. “Democracy is a system as well as a process. This huge step is just the beginning; there is still a lot of work to be done to make our democracy stronger and our Union more improved. “Every citizen has a role to play and those who are qualified to vote but have not registered no longer have any excuse not to do so because now, every  vote will count.It is a New Day for Nigeria,” he said