The economic realities the nation is presently confronted with making a review of funding for tertiary education in Nigeria for sustainable growth imperative. Tertiary education is the costliest level of education in any country.  It’s therefore high time we told ourselves the bitter truth – the Nigerian government cannot adequately fund tertiary education. But where will the significant funding for needed investments come from? Less funding from the government means that individual institutions need to find ways of reducing cost, take   steps   to   become   more   efficient   and   effective, and  find  alternative  sources  of  funding, although this can be a daunting task. Individual institutions will have to increase their non-government sources of income in a systematic manner to sustain the same or higher levels of expenditure, or find ways of reducing cost or increasing efficiency in the context of definitive arrangements reached with government. Education is the foundation upon which prosperous societies are built. Nations that thrive invest in education as a tool for the development of skills and competencies which can be used to produce wealth, and create and sustain a stable society. The decay of education in Nigeria began in the late 90’s when the sector was starved of funding. Gradually, this was followed by infrastructure decay and brain drain. In our candid opinion, we have come to that point in our national life that we must begin a new conversation around funding of tertiary education. It is no longer news that the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has been on strike for over six weeks and all of the issues on the table come down to funding. The government and stakeholders must be courageous to take certain practical steps in addressing the funding of our tertiary institutions. Financing a sustainable tertiary system depends upon the effective resolution of key policy issues concerning the  shape and  the  nature  of  the  tertiary system and who will pay for what.  This requires predictable  government  funding;  a  clear  position  on  private  sector  participation  in  education;  public-private partnerships; entrepreneurial interventions;  commercialisation;  leveraging    of    partnerships,   and   various  forms  of  equity  financing  together  with  solutions  for student  support. By the current arrangement, tuition at the tertiary level is free, which means the state  pays , or  it is  subsidised, in which case the government  pays  a  part.  Nigeria and Nigerians need to change their approach to funding of education if they expect to see any change to what prevails at the moment. Nigerians must learn to pay for social services, including education. Scholarships and bursaries provided either by the state, the educational institution, or from private sources are usually limited in number.  Financial support will have to be made available to help a growing number of students pay for their tuition. The government and policymakers must also consider an education loan system or taxation or a combination of the two. The significance of  a  loan  or  taxation  system  which  targets  the consumer of education is that it shifts the burden of payment by  the  student  from  the  point  of  consumption  to  after  graduation  when the graduate is able to earn. But loans will only become attractive to students if they are tied to earnings, that is, income-contingent, and taxes will only become acceptable if incomes are high enough to make taxes bearable.  A graduate tax system will target graduates only when they develop earning capacity, and in that sense it is an equitable tax if only in the context of working citizens who are graduates of tertiary level institutions. Making tuition fees payable by the student takes cost sharing directly to the primary beneficiary, while acknowledging that education is also a public good  and  must  be  supported  by  the  state  and  private  sector  interests. The future is clearly in sharing  costs, diversifying income sources, creating  new  sources  of  income,  building partnerships at home and abroad, and creating wealth beyond teaching and research. As a newspaper, we wish to reassert that education  is  a  public  good  that  benefits  private  individuals  and  multiple  interests  in  a  society; thus,  the  proposal  of cost sharing will turn out to be a win-win situation: students will benefit as they will get a good education; families will benefit from having educated their wards, and the Nigerian society will have a more stable tertiary education system.