The outgoing chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mai Mala Buni, has said that with 41 million membership base, APC will remain in power beyond 2023. Buni stated this while giving his speech as the interim chairman of the party at the Eagle Square venue of the 2022 APC national convention ongoing in Abuja on Saturday. According to Buni, his leadership helped in rescuing the party from collapse and improved its fortune. “We have collectively rescued the party and improved its fortune. President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership style helped in building the party. “We are also grateful for the support of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, National Executive Committee (NEC), the Governors and the National Assembly caucus. We enjoyed tremendous support from other party men,” Buni said. According to the Yobe State governor, some of his achievements included visits to critical stakeholders that were in crisis, adding that it helped in resolving the crisis without some media publicity. He added that for every extension of time for the committee, they brought new things to the party including registration and revalidation of party membership, which helped members to register as legitimate members. “I am glad to state with all sense of fulfilment that we registered new members and raised the membership from 11 million members to over 41 million members in the country. “APC under the caretaker committee made history with three governors of Cross River, Ben Ayade; David Umahi of Ebonyi and Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State. “The fortune was enriched with the joining of former speaker, Yakubu Dogara and members of the National Assembly. You have nothing to fear. Your defection did not violate any law,” Buni said. According to Buni, his leadership settled the balance of payments of their national secretariat which is now called Buhari House. On the 2023 general election, Buni said internal disputes were normal and common, calling on all members of the party to support the new leaders. “It is nescessarry to approach the 2023 election in unity,” Buni said while thanking all stakeholders for the support they gave him. “I am now more confident like never before that with 41 million members, APC has the capacity to remain in power and continue to be Africa’s biggest political party,” Buni said while calling for the dissolution of the caretaker committee which was seconded by Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State.