The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has finally unveiled the 37 member committee which will help the party resolve the contentious zoning of presidential ticket rocking the party. Recall that PDP National Executive Committee (NEC) at its 95th meeting resolved to set up a zoning committee with each of the 36 states presenting a member to deliberate on the zoning issue ahead of the May 28 presidential primaries of the party and 2023 election. The committee was given a two-week mandate on the issue which has seen party leaders from the North and South expressed deeply divergent views ahead of the primaries. The Committee will be inaugurated on Thursday, March 24, 2022 at the PDP national secretariat. Before this committee, the Governor Bala Mohammed committee had recommended that the party throw the ticket open to all members of the party. However, the national organising secretary of PDP, Hon. Umar M. Bature, in a statement Wednesday, revealed the list of the members as follows: (Abia) Sen. Mao Ohuabunwa; (Adamawa) H.E. Boni Haruna; (Akwa Ibom) Sen. Emmanuel Ibokessien; (Anambra) Prof. A. B. C. Nwosu; (Bauchi ) Sen. Abdul Ahmed Ningi; (Bayelsa) Rt. Hon. Boyelayefa Debekeme; (Benue) H.E. Dr. Samuel Ortom; (Borno) Sen. Sanusi Daggash; (Cross River) H. E. Liyel Imoke; (Delta) Rt. Hon. Ndudi Elumelu; (Ebonyi) Amb. Franklin Nchita Ogbuewu; (Edo) Chief Tom Ikimi Others are (Ekiti) H. E. Dr. Ayodele Fayose; (Enugu) H. E. Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi; (Fct/Abuja) Mohammed Abdulrahman; (Gombe) H. E. Dr. Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo; (Imo) Chief Fidelis Izuchukwu; (Jigawa) H. E. (Dr.) Sule Lamido; (Kaduna) H.E. Sen. Mohammed Ahmed Makarfi; (Kano) Amb. Aminu Wali; (Katsina) H. E. Barr. Ibrahim Shehu Shema; (Kebbi) Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, San; (Kogi) H. E. Ibrahim Idris; (Kwara) Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje; (Lagos) Chief Olabode Ibiyinka George, CON; (Nasarawa) H. E. Mike Abdul. Also on the committee are (Niger) Prof. Jerry Gana; (Ogun) Hon. Daisi Akintan; (Ondo) Dr. Omotayo Dairo; (Osun) Prof. Adewale Oladipo; (Oyo) Sen. Hosea Ayoola Agboola; (Plateau) H. E. Jonah David Jang; (Rivers) Rt. Hon. Austin Opara; (Sokoto) H. E. Attahiru Bafarawa; (Taraba) H. E. Darius Ishaku; (Yobe) Alh. Adamu Maina Waziri; and (Zamfara) H. E. Barr. Mahadi Aliyu Gusau.  In a related development, PDP said the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are running from their shadows and haunted by their failures in governance.  PDP was reacting to the Presidency’s comment on Tuesday, March 22, 2022 accusing it of trying to cause instability in the country over the fuel and power crisis. The president was responding to PDP’s initial claim that the lingering fuel crisis and the “unrelenting culture of arrogance, impunity, suppression and corruption by the APC administration” was akin to “kneeling on the necks of Nigerians.”  But in a response to the presidency yesterday, national publicity secretary of PDP, Hon Debo Ologunagba, in a statement said, “From the outburst of the Buhari Presidency, Nigerians now realize that the APC administration does not care about the suffering, agony and life discounting experiences encountered by our citizens daily as a result of APC’s thoughtless and inhumane policies.”