Media trial of suspects by security agencies especially those with a mandate to fight graft is a phenomenon that we have consistently written against and will continue to do so until the legal dictum that a suspect is presumed innocent until proved guilty is adhered to. By making this demand, we are by no means on the side of whoever is the victim of that illegal act but rather on the side of equity and justice. One does not need to be a lawyer or a journalist to observe that resorting to that mode of handling such sensitive matters that are so important to national rectitude often turns out to be counterproductive as the victims, unwittingly, gain the sympathy of the same society they harmed by their corrupt tendencies.  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), over the years, have come to find this method of handling cases, curiously, attractive with an unintended damage to the anti-corruption war. It is instructive to note that the EFCC was established in 2003, partially in response to pressure from the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF), which named Nigeria as one of the 23 countries that are non-cooperative in the international community’s efforts to fight financial crimes. Consequently, former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration established the commission to fight financial and economic crimes like advance fee fraud, money laundering, and terrorism financing, among others. However, this newspaper is concerned about the modus operandi of the EFCC which at the end of the day is beginning to cause more harm than good to the anti-corruption war particularly since the tenure of the present administration. Regardless, we wholly endorse the anti-corruption war as we believe that without tackling the menace, the country will not make any serious headway. All we ask for is the observance of the rule of law. We recall that in 2012, Nigeria was estimated to have lost over $400 billion to corruption since its independence. In 2021, the country ranked 154th in the 180 countries listed in Transparency International’s Corruption Index (with South Sudan, at 180th, being the most corrupt, and Denmark the least). Indeed, we support any move to clean the Augean stables but it must be done within the ambit of the law. However, the handling of the arrest and interrogation of the former Anambra Governor, Willie Obiano leaves much to be desired. It is gratifying that the EFCC authorities accepted that it was a mistake and are taking steps to apply appropriate disciplinary action on their staff who recorded and leaked that information in line with its guiding principles. The ex-governor was arrested last week at the Murtala Muhammad International Airport, Lagos, as he was about to board a flight to the United States. Obiano, who had been on the EFCC’s watchlist for some time, was arrested over corruption allegations. The anti-graft agency claimed that he was arrested for alleged misappropriation of public funds, including, N5 billion Sure-P and N37 billion security vote which was withdrawn in cash. Part of the funds was also allegedly diverted to finance political activities in the state. Before the Obiano case, we note that EFCC had disclosed that it secured 2,220 convictions in 2021. We also note, sadly, that over 90 percent of these arrests and convictions are cybercrime-related cases. They often burgle cases of politically exposed persons because of their penchant for media trials. Between 1999 and 2019 over 30 governors are, even now, being investigated by the commission. According to reports, seven of the accused governors have been convicted so far, one acquitted and the graft cases of the others are either ongoing or stalled. Apart from the governors, some other politically exposed persons, ministers, top government officials, and several bank chief executives are still on the radar of the commission. Most of the cases are stalled or still ongoing because of the absence of enough facts and evidence to charge the alleged people to court. In most cases, the EFCC rush to arrest the individual before they start gathering evidence instead of the other way round. This newspaper wants the anti-corruption war to succeed as we wish to see an end to the mind-boggling looting of our common patrimony. It is from this perspective that we call on the EFCC to change its modus operandi. No matter how long it takes, the commission should gather enough evidence before rushing to make arrests. In our view, investigations should be conclusively done and facts incontrovertible and iron-clad before an arrest is effected. We insist that the anti-corruption war must be won for Nigeria to reach its potential. Media trial of suspects is not the way to go if the light-fingered public officials are to be brought to deserved justice. The commission must choose the court over the media.  