An All Progressives Congress (APC) support group had issued minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, a 21-day ultimatum to officially declare for presidency or be forced to do so. The group under the aiges of Bridge Builders Initiative For Green Nigeria (BBIGN) gave the ultimatum during a solidarity march in support of the former Rivers State governor on Wednesday at the APC national secretariat, Abuja. Accordingly, BBIGN offered a bounty of N10 million for to whoever will find Amaechi and convince him to declare his interest to run for the 2023 Presidency. LEADERSHIP recalls that Amaechi had last Friday days ago debunked claims that he was nursing presidential ambition for next year’s presidential election. Speaking when he featured on ARISE TV programme, Amaechi asked those urging him to join the presidential race to rather give him the money for the procurement of nomination form. But national president of the APC support group, Emmanuel Orgwu, told journalists during the solidarity march that Nigerians were becoming impatient over the minister’s delay, adding that whether he is interested or not, Ngerians want him. Orgwu said, “It is based on the qualities which Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has that we, Nigerians are calling on the Ubima born leader and politician to declare his interest to run for the 2023 Presidency to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. “We Nigerians have saved the sum of Two Billion Naira to give to Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi for his electionary activities once he declares his interest to contest for 2023 Presidency. So, Mr. Minister, money is not going to be a problem or cause any hindrance. Therefore, we are giving you a twenty-one day ultimatum to declare, otherwise, we shall force you to do so. As Nigerians, we have both legal and moral rights to choose our King, and we have chosen Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi.” “Considering the character and integrity of Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, Nigerians believe that he is the only one capable of succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari. His capacity, commitment to good governance, welfare of the people, critical thinking on programme and policy implementation, approaches on issues that enhance growth and development and sacrifices for the party, put him at number one position for the highest job in Nigeria. “Nigerians also believe that the only person who can sustain and continue building on the foundations laid by the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi.” Congratulating the new elected National Working Committee (NWC), Orgwu said, “We believe in our great party, APC and her leaders.We appeal to the new leadership to do everything possible to ensure that APC retains power come 2023. As a Pro APC group, we are doing our best. “We have recruited over ten million Nigerians into the party, APC, and have registered over six million members with INEC. We must do everything possible as a support group to hold and mobilize more grassroots to ensure APC wins elections come 2023. “However, we are congratulating the new National Working Committee of our great party, APC as they resume their office today. We also want to specially thank the leader of our great party, President Muhammadu Buhari, who provided leadership when it was badly needed and ensured that the party had a successful convention. Today, because we have the party, we can aspire and express our interests to run in the general elections Come 20023. “Therefore, we are using this opportunity to request that our great party, APC should adopt and support the Minister of Transport, RE. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi to fly the flag of our party, APC as he is the most qualified amongst all.” The APC group condemned the attack on the Abuja-Kaduna bound train, accusing opposition leaders of sponsoring the attack. “It is very bad and wicked for unscrupulous Nigerians to take up dangerous weapons to destroy lives and properties. We are accusing leaders and personalities in opposition parties of being the sponsors of the wicked attack on Nigerians, just because of 2023 elections. Must they kill their fellow Nigerians because of politics and power? God will judge them,” the group stated.