Following the declaration by the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike to run for the presidency on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a pressure group under the auspices of Wike Ambassadors Network (WAN) has set up offices in Abuja and across the North Central geopolitical region to mobilise support ahead of the presidential primaries of the party. Addressing a press conference in Abuja yesterday, the convener of the group, Adams Abonu, disclosed that the group intends to traverse the length and breadth of the country to meet with statutory delegates to further enhance Wike’s chances to fly PDP’s presidential flag for the 2023 election. “The moment we all have been waiting for is upon us with Governor Wike answering the clarion call to contest for the presidency of Nigeria under the umbrella of the PDP. “For a man who has transformed Rivers State with his Midas touch and sound leadership acumen, the task to renew Nigeria, though might not be easy but one he is prepared for. “Across Nigeria, our platform went about gauging public opinion and we can confidently say that Nigerians truly yearn for a personality like Governor Wike to lead them away from the rot the APC led the country to.” “Nigerians from all walks of life have found a champion of their collective interest in the person of the Rivers state governor and they are prepared to vote for him massively when PDP puts him on the ballot. ‘’For us, as Wike Ambassadors, we are committed to ensuring that the yearnings of Nigerians are met by making Governor Wike as a rallying point to their massive aspirations in finding solutions to the present state of rot in the country,’’ Comrade Abonu declared. The group further urged the leadership of the PDP to consider zoning the presidential ticket of the party to the south in consonance with what it described as ‘’popular demands.’’ He said ‘’ we are confident that the leadership of our party would do the needful and heed popular opinion and zone the ticket to the south to engender the spirit of equity and fairness. After eight uninterrupted years of a president from the northern extraction, it is only fair to have the presidential ticket rotated to the south to ensure everyone is adequately carried along. ‘’When former Vice President Atiku Abubakar won the 2019 presidential ticket of the party from the north, Governor Wike and other southern compatriots threw their weights behind him and the same measure of loyalty should be reciprocated. Nigerians have seen what Governor Wike did and is still doing in Rivers state and they want him to come and renew the country for the benefits of all and sundry.’’ The group said they have set up offices in the six states of the north-central and the federal capital and await the earliest convenience of Governor Wike to commission the offices for their mobilisation to begin in earnest.