The Presiding Bishop of Majesty Worship Embassy, Amb Solomon Uchenna Winning, has formally declared his intention to run for president. Winning who hails from Ebonyi State joined the growing list of aspirants jostling to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. He is running on the platform of Accord Party. Addressing a press briefing yesterday in Abuja on “Critical State of the Nigeria Nation” Winning who is a businessman and politician said Nigeria as Africa’s most populous country and the largest economy in Africa is now faced with a myriad of troubles and setbacks in its social-political, and economic sphere. He also decried the weakening economy, rising insecurity, and violent conflicts in most parts of the country, which, according to him, is threatening the democratic progress made so far. The presidential candidate said all indices and attributes of what a failed state is are all traceable to the current state of Nigeria, the deepening distrust and mistrust in government and its institutions and amongst the people. He said it is visible that no one knows whom to trust particularly the polarization of the country between ethno religious divisions that had greatly impacted negatively on the political space. According to him, “The level of insecurity is now very alarming that kidnapping for Ransome and ritual killings is now a daily occurrence in every part of the country it does look like our security agencies are overwhelmed by the sorry situation and are very helpless with government rhetoric of being on the situation with no light seen at the end of every tunnel. “The economy is so bastardized that the Naira keeps falling in value against the naira on a daily basis, sparking a high rate of inflation on every household commodity and the government continues to watch helplessly and cluelessly on how to find a way out. “That the Nigeria State is tagged the poverty capital of the world by pundits is not far from the truth as the poverty rate orchestrated by abysmal failure of this government to curb unemployment is so alarming that in every home and streets everything goes for a living to be met, a very unfortunate situation for a nation that once class itself as the giant of Africa.” He also noted that institutions of government had been so eroded with sentiments that everyone now sees government office as a means to favor self-breeding high of corruption across all sectors of government Institutions. “I must comment that corruption had now been so endemic and institutionalised in such a way that many public figures in and out of government that had been accused charged with one corruption case or the other get away with their loots while the people watch under this government that claimed it’s primary assignment is to fight corruption but the same government had been so enmeshed and submerged with corruption. “Currently the country is bleeding from the hard and harsh bite of increase in the price of petroleum products and scarcity of the products at the same time, the president is the minister of Petroleum and till date, no explanation had been given for the unfortunate events that had further created a big hike in the price of every commodity.”