First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has advocated for a paradigm shift from donor-centered development aid, to a truly localised community-centered approach in building capacities for implementing humanitarian and development assistance. Mrs Buhari made the call in a keynote address at the 18th Dubai International Humanitarian and Development Aid Conference and Exhibition (DIHAD) which entered its third day. According to her media office, the annual event is the world’s leading gathering of policymakers from various countries, UN agencies, and a variety of actors, including international non-governmental organisations and charities in the humanitarian sector. Titled, “SDG 17: A Hand-holding Approach to Partnerships and Sustainable Development: The Nigerian Experience of Aisha Buhari/Future Assured Foundation”, the first lady gave an insight into the huge success of her pet private project in collaboration with development partners across the world. She highlighted the life-changing milestones achieved in the areas of health, education, women, and youth empowerment for various social groups across Nigeria. “Leaning on partnerships with governmental agencies, development partners, donors, and other actors, the Aisha Buhari Foundation has, over the years, touched the lives of multitude of Nigerians through the provision of healthcare centers, schools, and income-generating activities”, she disclosed. Mrs Buhari further noted that the experience of her private-driven Foundation over the past six years has significantly contributed to the realization of SDG goals 3, 4, and 5, adding, “this would have been impossible without the support of dependable partners in the peace and security, development and humanitarian clusters”. “I, therefore, advocate for a paradigm shift from donor-centered development aid, to a truly localized community-centered approach in building capacities for implementing humanitarian and development assistance,” she said. “It is pertinent to reflect more than ever before, on the issues of accountability, transparency, and trust in humanitarian aid delivery”,  she added. This year’s conference has drawn participants from across the globe, including the director-general, Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department (IACADI) of the U.A.E, Dr Hamad Al Sheikh Ahmed Al Shaibani, the European commissioner for crises management, Mr Janez Lenarcic. The secretary-general, International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), Mr Jagan Chapagain, and the secretary-general, Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, Dr Sergio Piazzi. Others are Sheikh Hamdan Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, president of the United Arab Emirates Red Crescent Authority, and Dr Manal Mohammed Taryam, the CEO of Noor Dubai Foundation, among several others.