The National Bureau of Statistics last week released the inflation figure for February 2022, showing a steep rise in the pace at which the process of goods and services increase in the country. From 15.6 per cent which it was in January this year, Consumer Price Index which measures inflation rose by 10 basis points to 15.7 per cent last month. With the current trend in the economy where diesel and fuel costs have soared, analysts say they see the inflation figure soar further by the end of this month to over 15.8 per cent. The average price of diesel which powers both the manufacturing sector as well as the services sector, had risen from an average of N280 per liter at the beginning of the year to around N800 as at last week. Analysts at Cordros Research had stated that they “expect the sustained impact of higher transport costs to exert upward pressure on food prices even as increased diesel prices are expected to stoke increases in the core inflation. Consequently, we forecast headline inflation to print 1.71 per cent month on month in March, translating to a 17 basis points rise in year on year inflation rate to 15.87 per cent.” The month of February had also been riddled with fuel scarcity pushing costs of products and services higher whilst increasing cost of production for the manufacturing companies. Asides these challenges, costs are also expected to rise further with the implementation of the 2120 Finance Act which imposes more tax obligation on companies. To this end, analysts as well as operators in the Nigerian business environment had called for a suspension of levies, tax waivers as well as a moratorium on the implementation of the 2021 Finance Act. According to The President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) Mansur Ahmed there is need for an engagement between the government and the operators in the Nigerian real sector said there “is the issue of timing” in the implementation of the Finance Act. “As we all know, the last years have been extremely stressful for all operators in the economy, but particularly for the manufacturing sector. “Not only has costs gone up substantially because of issues with the logistics, the contraction that has taken place and also with the implication of the consequences of the pandemic. For instance, the import of some very critical raw materials has been clearly suppressed in some areas, and I think this should be taken into account. “We need to ensure that we don’t, perhaps unintentionally continue to increase the tax burden, especially those who are already paying all the taxes that they should” Mansur stated. On his part, the Vice President and Managing Director, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Alfred Olajide noted that the current tax regime under the 2021 Finance Act is one sided as it does not pose any benefit to the real sector. Olajide while noting that the health justification for the sugar tax is not valid as the country’s consumption of five grams is much less than some other with 40 grams noted that if implemented under the current economic situation, the food and beverage sector which currently employs more than 1.5 million people, will be forced to further shrink thus leading to job losses. Explaining that the, manufacturers are currently facing increased cost in logistics, raw materials, fuelling costs as well as foreign exchange challenges, Olajide said the industry “requires a period of moratorium before the implementation of the 2021 Finance Act.” As wages are not rising, the chief executive of Centre For The Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE) and former Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Dr Muda Yusuf has called for a suspension of tax and levies on importation of petroleum products, as a way of curbing the rising inflation. Commenting on the latest inflation figures, Yusuf said “to tackle inflation, these key drivers would have to be addressed. All forms of taxes and levies on the importation of petroleum products should be suspended to give a respite on the spiking energy cost.  There should also be deeper stakeholder engagements across sectors to develop an enduring strategy on the way forward.” Noting that the technical computation of the inflation figures the NBS is not in dispute, he said the reality and severity of the impact of the intense inflationary pressures over the past one year is at variance with the official inflation data. “For the basket of goods consumed by most households, prices have jumped by between 30-100 per cent over the past one year. The same is true of businesses. The pressure of spiking inflation on household budgets has been excruciating and unbearable. Purchasing power has been massively eroded, real incomes have depressed, and the poverty situation has consequently worsened. “Businesses have been similarly impacted as they have been experiencing a slump in sales, turnover and profits margins.  The impact on small businesses is even more severe because of their limited capacity to absorb economic shocks. “The spiraling inflation dynamics should be elevated to the level of an economic emergency, deserving an urgent policy response at the highest level of government.  The impact on citizens’ welfare is inestimable. The effect on SMEs is troubling.  There is elevated social discontent, driven by increasing joblessness and hunger. “Meanwhile, the key drivers of inflation include high and increasing energy cost; worsening currency depreciation, escalating transportation cost, high import duty on manufacturing inputs, illiquidity in the forex market, bottlenecks in the logistics chain, security concerns and low productivity resulting from structural challenges and weak application of technology.  Central bank financing of the fiscal deficit is also a major driver of inflation.”