A Qatar Airways has kicked off the Kano-Doha route, which will connext the ancient city to about 140 global destinations. The airline’s Boeing 787 Dreamliner touched down at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport to a water-cannon salute yesterday morning, marking the start of four new weekly services to Kano from Doha via Abuja and the third Nigerian destination served by Qatar Airways. This is as Air Peace has commenced direct flights to Dubai. The first flight was operated with one of the airline’s Boeing 777 5N-BUU, on Tuesday, March 1, 2022. The inaugural flight was brought in by Qatari Captain Mohammed Abdulla and Nigerian First Officer, Adeola Olamide Ogunmola, from Gwagwalada, just outside Abuja – a symbol of the close ties between the two countries. The state-of-the-art Boeing 787 Dreamliner serving the route is one of the most modern aircraft in Qatar Airways’ fleet. It offers 22 seats in Business Class and 232 in economy. Qatar Airways’ vicce-President, Africa, Hendrik du Preez said: “The new route will connect Kano, via Doha, to more than 140 destinations across its network. Kano has been a trade and travel hub for hundreds of years. Now by linking it to the world’s best airport, Hamid International Airport in Doha, we hope to grow traffic between these two important hubs. Meanwhile,  Air Peace spokesperson, Stanley Olisa, who disclosed the flight resumption in a statement, said the United Arab Emirates is not a new terrain for Air Peace. Olisa stated that the airline had commenced scheduled operations into the country via Sharjah Airport in July, 2019, adding that, the airline is glad that it can now operate three weekly direct flights into the city of Dubai. Air Peace noted that UAE and Nigeria have a long-standing relationship and is delighted to be serving as one of the veritable means of oiling this amity, especially, solidifying the economic ties between the two countries through air travel. “Our commitment to excellence and determination to reduce the air travel burden of Africans, will continue to drive our route expansion and fleet modernisation. It is this same excellence that we’re replicating in this service. Still on the Qatar Airline route, vicce-President, Africa, Hendrik du Preez said, “We anticipate particular demand to and from India and other markets. We also expect there will be strong cargo demand. This new service not only underpins our commitment to Nigeria but is also a clear indicator of recovery and expected growth.” Qatar Airways has stayed steadfast in its commitment to Africa throughout the pandemic. It has since increased frequencies and grown its network, considerably improving connectivity to and from the continent and providing passengers with more choice and convenience. In Nigeria the airline offered three weekly flights to Abuja via Lagos in November 2020, which grew to four direct flights to Abuja in December 2021. In addition to the four weekly flights to Kano via Abuja will also start operating three weekly flights to Port Harcourt from Thursday 03 March 2022. This will bring the number of services it operates between Africa and Doha to 188 weekly flights serving 28 destinations across the continent. Minister of Aviation, Hon. Sen. Hadi Sirika, said: “The new flights provide important travel and trade links between Nigeria and the world.  As the largest economy in Africa, this enhanced global connectivity via the new Qatar Airways service will provide a vital network to move goods and people, as we recover from challenges of the pandemic and prioritise growth. “Kano and Port Harcourt are both important to this recovery. This new service also reinforces the close ties between Nigeria and Qatar, and it paves the way to explore new, untapped opportunities.” Qatar Airways continues to apply its flexible booking policy that offers unlimited changes to travel dates and destinations, and fee-free refunds for all tickets issued for travel completed by 31 May 2022. Passengers flying to and from Kano will also benefit from Qatar Airways’ new baggage allowances which provide for up to 46kg in Economy class, split over two pieces, and 64kg, split over two pieces, in Business Class. Qatar Airways is the first global airline in the world to achieve the prestigious 5-Star COVID-19 Airline Safety Rating by Skytrax. This follows the success of HIA as the first airport in the Middle East and Asia to be awarded a Skytrax 5-Star COVID-19 Airport Safety Rating.