Before the exercise, these 19,018  pensioners were illegally receiving monthly pension payments from PTAD. However, the cleansing done by the pension administration agency brought sanity into the old pension scheme management as well as saved the federal government several billions of Naira. Investigation shows that, when PTAD took over the administration of the DBS, it was only handed over,  an excel sheet comprising of the name, company of the retirees, pension arrears, account number, among others, without  authentication of those names. Hence, it took the first major steps to sanitise the system by suspending 5,834 pensioners from the payroll in November 2019 and the review of complaints thereon has resulted in the subsequent restoration of 2,849 pensioners to the payroll, leaving about 2,985 pensioners out of the system. Similarly, in October 2020, PTAD removed all pensioners, numbering 20,191 classified as unverified and on payroll, following comprehensive matching of verification database with payroll database, in October 2020. However, the review of complaints from pensioners and other related stakeholders on the exercise has resulted to the reinstatement to payroll of only 4,158, hence, throwing out 16,033 pensioners out of the system, saving government billions of Naira. Cumulatively, LEADERSHIP learnt that the two exercises led to weeding out 19,018 pensioners, who were illegally drawing from federal government and the agency  without justification. Further revelations show  that, while some of these pensioners were deceased even as the relatives never disclosed this, some were Nigerians in diaspora while others were still in active service of the federal government, yet collecting pension. Speaking on the relationship between pensioners unions, which, somehow fueled corruption Pre-PTAD, at a training workshop for Lagos Pension Correspondents in Ikeja, on Monday,  the director, Parastatals Pension department(PaPD), PTAD, Kabiru Yusuf, said: “along with the records of pensioners monthly pension inherited at the time of take-over of monthly pension in August 2015 were details of cheque off dues (COD) payment and other deductions to pensioners unions/associations of some of the agencies. “These deductions range from 1% to as much as 15% in some instances and include such deductions as loan, co-operative contribution, among others. PTAD at some point discontinued deduction of any other amount different from COD from the monthly pension of pensioners on its payroll.” He added that, pursuant to the nationwide verification, the Directorate initiated a project to identify all qualified/verified pensioners that have not been enrolled for monthly pension. The exercise, he said, was designed to identify all PaPD pensioners that had been verified but yet to be enrolled for monthly pension or one-off payment, for immediate enrolment and payment of accrued arrears in order to bring them at par with their counterparts on the payroll or payment of one-off entitlement as applicable. Meanwhile, he disclosed that, PTAD Inherited N129.4bn unfunded liabilities from treasury fund parastatals, ex-PHCN pensioners and defunct agencies. On Treasury Funded Parastatals, he said, these group have claims of arrears relating to unpaid/short paid gratuity and unpaid pension for some period prior to being enrolled for monthly pension by their Agency/ Insurance underwriter that was hitherto responsible for managing their pension before the establishment of and take-over of monthly pension by PTAD. Reacting to Ex-PHCN liabilities, he said: “these group of ex-workers of defunct PHCN were transferred to PTAD by the National Electricity Liability Management Company (NELMCO) that was hitherto mandated to manage and pay the monthly pensions and accrued benefits of these disengaged workers, as a consequence of the privatization of the electricity sector and the unbundling of conglomerate known as Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN).” On Defunct Agencies, he pointed out that, “these category of pensioners or ex-workers of privatized or liquidated agencies that were disengaged at privatization or liquidation are owed arrears of pension from the period that the commuted pension hitherto paid to them (at the time of their disengagement) elapsed, to the time that PTAD enrolled and commenced the payment of monthly pension to them.” Earlier, the executive secretary of the Directorate, Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, has reiterated the commitment of her agency to the wellbeing of 107,785 pensioners it is presently paying their monthly pension benefits. She added that, over the years, PTAD has worked assiduously to change the narrative of pension administration in Nigeria, especially, under the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS). Dr. Ejikeme, who was represented at the event by the diirector, Parastatals Pension Department, Kabiru Yusuf, noted that, the directorate is proud to see that the hard work being carried out has yielded and has continued to yield positive results, stressing that,  pension management in Nigeria is a very sensitive issue and that PTAD has been at the forefront since the inception, ensuring that the welfare of pensioners under the defined benefits scheme remains a priority. The PTAD boss applauded the robust relationship existing between the directorate and media, whilst pledging to foster the relationship to achieve the mandate of the directorate. The director, Civil Services Pension Department, Sulayman Shelleng, in a paper entitled: Overview of the Civil Services Pension Department, said the directorate inherited 129,999 civil service pensioners, verified 115,313 of them and presently has 107,785 on its payroll. He maintained that the payment of 21 months arrears of consequential adjustment in pension by the directorate as a result of new national minimum wage has amounted to over N19 billion. 