Following his emergence as the new national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, and other new members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, have assumed office at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja on Wednesday. Adamu, who got to the secretariat at about 10:28am, said he emerged national chairman by divine providence, adding that it was God’s endorsement that entrusted him with the party’s leadership. In a brief handing-over ceremony on Wednesday, the erstwhile chairman of the party’s caretaker committee and Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, handed over the party’s instruments of office including the party’s flag to the former governor of Nasarawa State. Speaking during the event, Adamu noted that with less than 12 months to the 2023 polls, all hands must be on deck to ensure that the party clinches victory. Noting that President Muhammadu Buhari is not one who tolerates failure from anyone, Adamu said, “It is only through God that we have emerged as the new National Working Committee (NWC) of our great party. Now, it looks so simple, but it is not our doing but the doing of Almighty God who made all this possible. “A month ago, I didn’t know I will become the Chairman of APC. Here I am today, receiving the instrument and authority from the outgoing Chairman. Only God can do this. It is not my personal wisdom nor my charisma. It is not personal doings. There may be elements on the way but all these were made possible by the endorsement of Almighty God. “I want to say on behalf of the new NWC that it is not going be a easy time for us. We have a major event, that is, going to test the waters about how stable we are as a party, and that is the general election that is coming. For me, by the time, we start working, our main task will be how we handle the elections as a party. How will we win the general election? People are talking, oh, APC does not have an incumbent on the ticket. We will have the honor and the integrity and the legacy of the current president on the ticket. “We will work day and night. We have less than 12 months to face the general election. So, everybody should buckle up. The little I have had about the president is that he has complete allergy for failure. So, failure will not be in APC from today. We will work for success together. If any of you my colleagues has an issue, don’t begrudge me. If there is any issue, let me know. “I promise you in the spirit of collective leadership that teamwork is the only way. I cannot deliver alone. What I am asking for is something called ‘loyalty’. You have to be loyal. You must have one team. If you bring divisive tendency, we will deal with it. This country is greater than any one of us. And this party is bigger than any single member of this party. So, that is the spirit.” On his part earlier on, Governor Buni said his committee had done its best from membership registration, revalidation to the ward and state congresses, even as he urged the new NWC members to sustain the gains of his caretaker committee. Buni stated: “We can say we have recorded 70% success. A bigger and larger political party like APC with over 41 million membership, part of democracy is to agree and disagree at some points. But it is all about human management. The ability to manage the situation is what will keep this party together and stronger again, and again. “So, as at it is and as members of NWC, you should study Mr president speech and that should be your guide. And also, I want to thank you most importantly for this opportunity all your efforts both individually and collectively for making our task easier throughout our stewardship.”