The federal government has said it drilled over 400 boreholes and rehabilitated 190 others in the 36 States of the country as well as the FCT. Minister of Water Resources, Engr. Suleiman Adamu, stated this at an event to commemorate the annual World Water Day with the theme: “Groundwater, Making the Invisible Visible”. The minister, who was represented by the permanent secretary of the ministry, Mrs Didi Walson-Jack, said that an estimated 60% of the Nigerian population depends on groundwater for their main drinking source, while over 70% of rural communities depend on it for survival. He added that the Nigerian economy depends on the groundwater for domestic, agricultural and industrial uses. Adamu noted that Nigerians joined the rest of the international community and other member-countries of the United Nations in celebrating water and raising awareness about the over two billion people currently living without access to clean and safe water, and that the day was set aside to inspire action towards SDG 6 – water and sanitation for all by the year 2030. He further noted that the groundwater is still frequently undervalued, insufficiently understood and consequently poorly managed with no adequate data to determine usage of the resource, even with the many benefits in this invisible nature. According to him, “The ministry in its WASH emergency response to COVID-19 drilled 286 new boreholes schemes and rehabilitated 190 old boreholes schemes in the 36 states of Nigeria and the FCT. This activity made the invisible resource visible and available to the Nigerian populace as a means of curbing the covid-19 infections. Also in 2021, 76 boreholes were constructed under the 2021 Nationwide Rural Water Supply programme. “More so, over 70 groundwater monitoring wells have been drilled and instrumented across the major aquifers of the country through the Nigeria Hydrological services Agency (NIHSA) under the ministry. In the same vein, special studies such as saline intrusion into freshwater aquifers were being carried out in order to better understand and sufficiently safeguard this invisible but critical resource. “To further sustainably manage this resource, the Nigeria Integrated Water Resources Management Commission has the mandate to issue licenses for water abstraction after carrying out all due diligence, the commission has issued water use licenses to 72 water users most of which are drilling contractors. This action would contribute in making the invisible resource visible to the common man without drying it up.” The minister, however, enjoined all Nigerians especially stakeholders and partners in the water sector to put in more effort in order to recognise the enormous ecological value for the many surface water bodies and wetlands that depend on it so as to mitigate pressures from exploitation, contamination and climate change on groundwater. On his part, HoD WASH, Action Against Hunger, Mr. Kanaganathan Rangaiya, reiterated the organisation’s commitment in collaboration and result-oriented team work with the government in achieving the SDG-6 through its joint WASH response. Kanaganathan emphasised that the past two years Action Against Hunger has invested in the groundwater surveillance project, piloted across North East Nigeria, as aquifer tracking locations for the Lake Chad Region of intervention. He also said that over 23 groundwater surveillance devices have been installed to measure water levels and guide decisions on sinking of boreholes, wells and sewage pits and latrines, while also consistent in advocating for access to quality water and water security. Speaking earlier in her welcome address, permanent secretary of the Water Resources ministry, Mrs Didi Walson-Jack, represented by director, Special Duties, Mr. Peter Nwankpa, buttressed that as the year’s theme implied, groundwater is invisible but its impact is and uses are visible everywhere. It is an integral part of water ccycle and a vital resource that must be collectively and responsibly managed, because “to a thirsty man, a drop of water is worth more than a sack of gold” according to the WWD slogan.