Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea have signed a landmark Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to supply gas from Nigerian offshore fields to the neighbouring Equatorial Guinea Gas Processing Facility at Punta Europa. This MOU kicks off a strategic economic collaboration across the Gulf of Guinea wherein Nigeria’s abundant natural gas reserves compliments Equatorial Guinea’s world class Gas Processing and Liquefaction infrastructure. This is as stakeholders in the nation’s energy sector strategised to come up with quick, workable solutions towards meeting towards meeting the 2060 net-zero target adopted by the country. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources,  Chief Timipre Sylva, at the MoU signing on the sideline of ongoing fifth Nigeria International Energy Summit (NIES 2022), said that the execution of the agreement met one of the imperatives of the “Decade of Gas” in Nigeria. Sylva said the recent passage of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) coupled with “Nigeria’s Decade of Gas” initiative together created an enabling environment which triggered conception of the project, facilitating major investment inflow from Equatorial Guinea into Nigeria. The project. according to him, also signals the joint effort of the two countries in working towards a greener energy world. “Whilst we are focused on the domestic gas agenda, we are keeping an eye on the global gas market as well. “Nigeria has huge gas resources, a significant amount of which is offshore and will require unprecedented investment in infrastructure to bring them to market. “This collaboration allows much of that stranded gas to access the global gas market within 18 to 24 months in what will be the fastest timeline to market for a Nigerian offshore gas asset. This is in addition to accelerated royalty revenues that come from producing many gas fields that would have otherwise remained stranded. Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons of Equatorial Guinea, Mr Gabriel Lima, stated that the execution of the MOU was a great example of the South-South cooperation between neighbouring Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea. “As the global geopolitics of natural gas evolves and within the context of the world transitioning to a lower carbon footprint, it was imperative that we think differently on how to remain an important player in energy markets. “New, fast, and competitive sources will be a major determinant of success. “This strategic collaboration breaks down geographical boundaries and allows delivery of gas from Nigeria to Equatorial Guinea’s Punta Europa facilities, extending their life and providing access to the regional and global energy markets,” he said. He noted that the NNPC and its’ JV partners could get a unique opportunity to monetise gas that would have otherwise been stranded offshore due to absence of infrastructure. According to him, as the world dynamics change, Nigeria aims to adapt rapidly to ensure that we remain at the forefront of credible gas exporters. Meanwhile, speaking at the Chief Executive Officer Round Table Session at the ongoing NIES on Tuesday, which engaged top CEOs from the National Oil Company, international and indigenous companies on the topic, “Strategies for Confronting the Energy Transition” Sylva tasked the companies to come up with workable and accelerated energy transition strategies for the country. These, he said includes focusing on critical factors that can make them happen, whether these factors relate to the government, society, policy makers, technology, investors or the industry itself. He however, cautioned that while Nigeria pursues the energy transition agenda, “let us also recognise that fossil fuels will continue to play a critical role in our energy and economic systems,” he said. Also speaking, Malam Mele Kyari, Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd. said the country would need to be much more productive as industrial growth must be accelerated and infrastructure must be put in place in the short term so that economic growth. These would require up to $33 trillion in investments. Deputy managing director, Deepwater, TotalEnergies, Mr Victor Bandele, said it focused on increased participation and partnership with companies that were fully aligned with its aspirations. According to him, it also partners the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas because it believes gas is a transition fuel. Bandele wondered that if currently there were 7.6 billion people globally, by 2060 being the targeted year for zero emission, there would be 10 billion people, thereby posing challenge to the country. He said it was investing in Nigeria and promoting access to clean energy and embracing project that had a notion of reducing emission. “We are deliberate in our effort, believing the will demonstrated in Petroleum Industry Act (PIA 2021),” he said. Also speaking, Mr Osagie Okunbor, Chairman Shell Company, said it strongly believed in universal energy targeting zero net emission in 2060. Okunbor said it was looking forward to increasing gas component by 55 per cent for energy mix adding that it had clear target for net zero emission.  