After getting a new lease of life following President Muhammadu Buhari’s intervention in the leadership crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), members of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party have taken over Buhari House national secretariat of APC in Abuja. National secretary of the caretaker committee, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, who had angrily stormed out of the party secretariat last week after a shouting match, returned to his office on Tuesday amid cheers from workers at the secretariat and some party members. Also, aides of the party’s national caretaker committee chairman and Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, resumed at the national secretariat to take full control of the place. Governor Buni himself is yet to resume in his office at the national secretariat. LEADERSHIP had reported on Monday that Buni weathered the storm of the ongoing leadership crisis rocking the party in the aftermath of the briefing President Buhari received from some of his ministers on the implications of the leadership impasse on the 2023 general elections. President Buhari, it was reported, had directed that Buni should return as the chairman of the caretaker committee with a view to leading the party to its national convention billed for March 26. Until Tuesday, Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani-Bello, had been presiding over the affairs of the party since Monday last week when he declared that he was now acting chairman of the party in the absence of the chairman, Buni, who is out of the country. LEADERSHIP had also reported last Wednesday that national secretary of the CECPC, Akpanudoedehe, had angrily stormed out of the caretaker committee meeting presided over by Governor Bello. Akpanudoedehe who angrily left the meeting halfway following a disagreement with Bello was said to have driven out of the secretariat before returning to move some of his personal belongings from his office. He quickly returned to the party’s secretariat after reports of his resignation broke, saying it was only an official notification from President Buhari that could warrant his removal and that of the national chairman, Buni. But speaking with journalists before leaving the party’s national secretariat today, Akpanudoedehe said, “There is no trouble, no crisis in our party at all. I have released a statement which will be made available to you now.” And in the statement that was eventually released a few minutes after, Akpanudoedehe declared that the APC is intact, functional as originally constituted. He noted that the party was now crisis-free, strong and remained united in giving the country the transformative leadership and good governance it promised Nigerians. He stated: “The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the Chairmanship of His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, makes this Press Release to clarify the events of last week and reassure the membership and stakeholders of the Party, as well as the Nigerian people in general, that the Governing Party is crisis-free, strong and remains united in giving the country the transformative leadership and good governance which she promised them. “The CECPC therefore informs the Press and the General Public as follows: That the CECPC was appointed, and has always done her best, to steer the affairs of the APC in line with the mandate invested in her at inauguration by the National Executive Council (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress. “That on the 28th day of February, 2022 the CECPC Chairman took a long-delayed trip abroad on health grounds, leaving behind written authorisation for other members of the CECPC to continue work in his absence, particularly the day to day management of the APC. “That in his absence, sundry activities earlier scheduled for action appeared to develop fresh urgency in order to satisfy the Timetable for the 2023 General Elections released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), thus galvanizing some within the CECPC to act in their best understanding of both the situation and the leadership dynamics in the Committee/Party. “That all such actions were clearly identified at all times as happening in an acting or proxy capacity, and under the auspices of the substantive Chairman, His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni, contrary to widespread speculations that the Chairman, Secretary or some other officials of the CECPC have been removed from Office or otherwise replaced. “That the CECPC is intact and functional as originally constituted. “That delivering a seamlessly successful National Convention for the APC on March 26, 2022 is top on priority for the CECPC and we shall continue to execute such assignments as are legal pending the return of the Chairman who is on his way back to the country and shall resume Office on arrival with the full support of all members and other stakeholders. We are grateful to INEC for her firm guidance in the entire circumstances.” The party’s scribe further noted that the party has engaged a team of senior lawyers to address a purported court order halting the planned national convention. “We hereby call on the Judiciary to give the matter the needed and expedient attention in our bid to vacate the purported Court order and allow for the conduct of a transparent and rancour-free National Convention deserving of our great party, APC. “The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) hereby restates absolute loyalty to the APC, thanks the National Organs and leadership of our Party led by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR and reassures our members and citizens that the Party is stronger than ever before and poised to extend her winning streak since 2015 into 2023 and beyond. Ladies and gentlemen of the 4th Estate of the Realm, we thank you,” he added.