As a reaction to the sudden Al-Qaeda-inspired attack on the American twin towers located in New York on 9th November, 2001, the former President of the United States, Mr George Bush Jnr said “America is in a state of war”.  The declaration of the prolonged offensive against not only the Al-Qaeda, which was the most notorious terror organization in the world at the time, but also its real and even perceived allies, was the most popular option among Americans. The effects of the offensive which was however described or interpreted by most Americans and their sympathisers as retaliation to the persistent subversion, in various ways, of the interests of their country by the “enemies” were so severe that they even caused noticeable setbacks to world politics, diplomacy and economy. Both the scale and the intensity of the counter-attacks by the government of the United States were some of the clearest indications of the commitment of the country to the protection of the lives, health and wealth of the Americans. It was, in fact, an incident to which the leader of Al-Qaeda eventually loss his life and which is always recalled and cited as an example of the utmost show of determination, on the part of the government of a country, to safeguard the lives of the citizens and other interests. Whenever some kind of non-challance or indifference towards issues that relate to the security and welfare of the people are manifested by the government particularly in Nigeria, the rapid and effective response of the governments of America and some other countries to emergencies are easily recalled in order to bring out the sharp contrast. Even with the growing effort of the Nigerian government under President Muhammadu Buhari to either provide excuses for the lapses in the security architecture or create the impression that the situation is under control, the speedy escalation of terror attacks on the citizens continuously renders all such explanations absolutely baseless. Whether the government, which was voted into power largely on account of the strong promise the All Progressives Congress (APC) that birthed it made to strengthen security, agrees or not , the rise in the rate of violent attacks has fully pointed to a disturbing decline in its capacity to discharge such a very basic duty. The terrorists either as kidnappers, bandits, hired-killers or some other blood-thirsty elements are clearly growing more in number and sophistication and have therefore become a lot more daring, just because the approach of the government to the problems has been inadequate or even counter-productive. Attackers of people and places have appeared to be confident that they have the monopoly of violence. Train Attack: Bandits Contact Passenger’s Family, Say Missing Persons Are With Them The manner in which last Monday 28th March 2022, the criminals attacked the Abuja-Kaduna train filled with several hundreds of passengers and consequently killed, injured and abducted a lot of them was an expression of a resolve to bring the country to a complete halt. Having come after the almost total take-over of the roads by the criminals and the infiltration of the Kaduna International Airport few days earlier by them in the course of which one person was killed, the train incident was clearly a furtherance of their bid to establish a reign of terror. While the criminals are boldly executing their mission, the authorities have appeared to have submitted to them thereby pushing the citizens further into a state of terrible helplessness. The hope for a rescue which lingered for a long period has, as a result of the increasing attacks, now given way to hopelessness. What is most annoying about the attack on the train is the fact that the incident was predicted, as it was after all, not the first one. There was, at one time, such a direct attack on the train and at another time an attempt to unleash terror on the passengers after they arrived at the Rigasa Station in Kaduna. Some other signs that allowed or even validated the prediction of the occurrence of violent attacks on the train were the threat by the terrorists that they would hit that particular means of transportation and the intelligence reports that were leaked to the public which contained some details of the drift of large number of Boko Haram insurgents towards some forests within Kaduna State that are close to the rail lines. All these facts were what constituted the basis of the conclusion that the attack on the train was just a matter of a little time. But even with such a conclusion or prediction, it was genuinely expected that the government would take steps to avert a danger that continuously loomed large. It was never imagined that the government would wait for the occurrence of a catastrophe that was long foreseen. The apparent reluctance of the government to deploy all its might in the fight against insecurity is a clear indication of a terribly low appreciation of the fact that Nigeria is now, just like America was, in a state of war. The persistent onslaught on Nigerians by the violent criminals is to the country what the terror attacks on the twin towers were to America. Or what else all the incessant abductions and killings of the people and the destruction of places are, if not acts of war against the country? The Nigerian government should therefore have recognized the compelling necessity for the launch of counter-attacks on the terrorist in a manner of a country in a war. Any other strategy, as the experience has so far shown, will definitely not make the required impact. But what have come from the government as a reaction to the train incident are the usual lamentation and expression of resolve to deal with the situation. The directive given by President Buhari for the quick implementation of the integrated surveillance and monitoring network for Abuja-Kaduna as well as Lagos-Ibadan rail lines as contained in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant (Media and Publicity), Garba Shehu, is a normal one and therefore not strong or assuring enough to elicit confidence in the minds of Nigerians. The only aspect of the government’s reaction that was laudable was the immediate mobilisation of soldiers and the rescue of some of the passengers. It was an effort that, though not effective enough to mitigate the devastating effects of the incident, indicated the capacity of the military to rout out the terrorist; a capacity that is however continuously left un-utilised. It is the realisation of the fact that the might of the military is not being adequately put into use that makes the bandits to think that they can override, particularly the Northern part of the country. The repeat of the attack on the train at another station within the first 24 hours after the first one at the Dutse Station, both along the same route, showed the absolute determination of the terrorists to shut down the North or some parts of it. 