The Department of State Services (DSS) yesterday said it had uncovered plans by some non-state actors to cause violence in parts of the country, particularly the North Central. The service in a statement signed by its spokesman, Dr Peter Afunanya, said the aim is to cause ethno-religious crisis, ignite reprisals and heat up the polity. The service also said in a bid to achieve this, the sponsors had mobilised foot soldiers and held several meetings in and outside the target areas. The agency said; “The service is also aware of a plot to use students, striking university teachers, labour unions, disgruntled individuals and strategic groups as well as exploit the global energy situation to carry out a mass protest like the ENDSARS. This is despite ongoing efforts by government to address the issues. “While the service views the machination as unpatriotic, it is on the trail of the agents of destabilisation who are desirous of using violence to achieve ulterior goals. Though it has emplaced measures to disrupt these tendencies, it warns the ring leaders and their cohorts to desist from acts capable of causing a breakdown of law and order. The public should be rest assured that the Service will, in conjunction with other security agencies, go after the sponsors of this scheme and ensure the law takes it course. “Citizens are advised not only to engage according to rules but should resist persuasions to be used to destroy their own country.  Those who may wish to go contrary to the law will, however, face the consequences. ”  Niger Discovers More Explosives In a related development, Niger State Governor Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has disclosed that security operatives had detonated explosives planted in Galadima-Kogo, Shiroro local government area of the state. Governor Sani Bello who spoke to journalists after a visit to the IDP camp in Gwada Primary School said more explosives were discovered in Galadima Kogo community and security operatives were working hard to detonate them to enable internally displaced persons go back to their homes. He said that many informants had been arrested by security operatives in the state in recent weeks,  promising that they would be made to face the wrath of the law. The governor said more security operatives had been  deployed to the state, with  new strategies adopted to deal with the security situation. He said not all the 4000 internally displaced persons at the Gwada camp were actually displaced as a result of banditry. He said while some were displaced by terrorists attacks, others were displaced as a result of the overflow water due to the ongoing construction of the Zungeru Hydro Dam. The governor interacted with the men of the  state vigilante corps undergoing basic training, saying they would be provided modern fighting equipment and logistics to enable them play their complementary role in security operations.