As a Christian and even a Pastor, South-Westerner and member of the academic community, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, by a certain judgement, fits the description of a suitable partner of President Muhammadu Buhari who is a Muslim, Northerner and product of military establishment. Between the two of them or from either of them definitions of most of the issues about power equation have been found. In other words, each of the requirements for contest for the presidency including those that were a lot more politically expedient than constitutional were met by the duo, which was one of the major factors that accounted for their success at the polls. Every component of the national population enjoys one kind of attachment with either or both of them. Although the choice of Osinbajo who was a small quantity as a presidential running mate by Buhari in 2015 was a blow to some strong contenders, a shock to the promoters or handlers of such contenders and a terrible surprise for most Nigerians to whom he was unsurprisingly unknown, the decision was gradually accepted as an answer to the numerous questions that were raised about suitability and compatibility which are the main features of any balanced and prosperous team in the contest for political power. Whether or not the Vice President has, in the last little less than seven years that they have been in power, served the purposes for which he was twice picked by President Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC), the new fact about him is his fast growth as a politician whose desire to create a political base for himself has become adequately noticeable. He does not have to struggle to convince Nigerians that he is now an improved personality who, as the holder of the second biggest position in Nigeria, has gained a lot more political strength and the attendant visibility which are indispensable instruments for contest for the presidency. Therefore, his recent declaration of intention to succeed President Buhari in 2023, unlike his emergence as a presidential running mate in 2015, is neither a blow, nor a shocker, nor even a surprise. Any other decision, on his part, would have been completely contrary to the dominant expectation. President Buhari’s show of understanding to the clear expression of interest by the Vice President to take over from him was equally expected because the two of them have been able to manage each other since 2015, which is an indication of the existence of mutual respect between them. Even if Osinbajo is not the Buhari’s most preferred aspirant, he is still entitled to a mild treatment from a president to whom he maximally defers on all matters of politics and governance. Osinbajo is a harmless immediate sub-ordinate and political associate whose approach to the discharge of the duties of his office obviously gives his boss and all those schemers in the corridors of power some sense of comfort. There is nothing in his personality or attitude to suggest that he has ever been or can ever be domineering or even assertive to the extent that he will become overbearing to the president or even those cabinet members who have the penchant for the manipulation of the political and governance processes. It is this reality about the Vice President and the conviction that he will, as a matter of moral responsibility, continue with the policies and programmes of the current government of which he is the second driver that are being put forward, by some elements within and outside the government, as the main reasons for which he should be supported to emerge as the next president of the country. A lot of those who have continued to consider the performance of the current government as satisfactory seem to believe that the emergence of Osinbajo as president will guarantee continuity. But even with the huge edge that he has over all the other presidential aspirants in the APC, the Vice President appears to have corresponding challenges at this level and which will definitely multiply if he becomes the candidate during the main election in 2023. As a beneficiary of the gesture of the former Lagos State Governor, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, on whose shoulders he stood or even still standing and to whom he is therefore beholden, it was very difficult to imagine that he would contest against him. Clearly, Tinubu’s desire to be the next president of Nigeria on the platform of APC is a severe threat to Osinbajo’s succession bid. The expression of such a desire by Tinubu who is not only one of the most prominent politicians in the South-West but also an, arguably, unrivalled contributor to the emergence of Buhari as President in both 2015 and 2019 must have terribly decimated the viability of the Osinbajo project. This means that, at this level, his indebtedness to Tinubu is a huge burden that will continue to weigh him down until it makes his ambition completely unrealisable. He cannot withstand a competition with the Tinubu political family to which until now he belonged or even, perhaps, up till now belongs. Yet, as distant as it is, the emergence of Osinbajo as the presidential candidate of the APC is still a possibility to which his promoters look forward. He may be a beneficiary of certain calculations and considerations that may disfavour all the other aspirants, including Tinubu. If that happens, the Vice President will, more than any other contestant for the presidency, be duly subjected to intensive search and interrogation by Nigerians. The prevailing widespread disenchantment with the styles of the current government will definitely make him to become a candidate from whom abundant explanations will be sought. He will, for example, be required to provide justification for the adoption of some of such styles and, more importantly, explain the failure of the government to address insecurity, poverty, decay of the infrastructure and the disorientation of the superstructure. In every of the engagements that he will have with the various categories of Nigerians in the course of his campaign, Vice President Osinbajo will be rightly treated as a conspirator in the execution of harsh policies and unviable programmes that have become sources of pains to majority of the citizens. Such engagements will expose him more as an uninspiring leader whose only source of strength is his church – The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) – which has already manifested the intention to utilise its vast following to facilitate the execution of the project; a kind of commitment that cannot mitigate the effects of the dilemma in which Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has found himself. It is only the supply of satisfactory explanations for the failure of the government or dissociation from the failure, both of which he cannot do, that are the solutions to his problems.