The Interfaith Dialogue Forum For Peace (IDFP) has charged  Nigerians not to sell their conscience while voting in the 2023 general election even though they are at liberty to collect whatever inducement would be given to them by politicians. Speaking during the 4th IDFP General Assembly held in Abuja with the Theme: “Building And Sustaining The Culture Of Peaceful Elections In Nigeria: The Role Of The Faith And Traditional Leaders, in collaboration with KAICIID Dialogue Centre, former executive secretary of National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) Prof Usman Yusuf said, “If they give you money, collect the money. If they give you rice, wrapper, collect it and vote your conscience,” Yusuf said. Yusuf, who was part of the people that followed Sheikh Ahmad Gumi to the bush for conversation with the bandits, said the bandits are armed to the teeth and won’t listen to politicians. “Nigeria is fighting internal civil war. We went into the forest to meet with the Fulani bandits. They were taking Marijuana, Cordein, Tramol and all sorts of drugs. When we started preaching to them, they began to drop the drugs,” Yusuf said, adding that hard drugs intake are fuelling crimes in the country.” He urge the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to put their searchlights on people giving terrorists drugs. Yusuf said more bandit leaders are killed by their fellow bandits and not the security agencies, adding that each of their convoy has over 300 motorcycles. “The only way to stop this terrorism is for the clerics to stand up and preach to them,” Yusuf said. Co-chairman of IDFP, Bishop Sunday Onuoha, said their focus is to mobilise Nigerians to vote in the 2023 general elections. “We are mobilising Nigerians to vote in the 2023 general elections and to also ensure that they contribute their quota towards solving the problem of security,” Onuoha said. The director general of Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution, Prof Bakut D Bakut, said religious leaders must do more to convert individuals from a culture of violence to that of peace during elections. He said the rights of people are being violated during elections, adding that all must be done to ensure that human rights are not violated during elections. “Religious leaders have a lot to do as we approach the 2023 general elections. We must ensure the rights of the people are protected. We must ensure that women’s rights are not violated. We must ensure the peaceful conduct of our people,” Bakut told the clergymen.