The federal government has inaugurated a 14- man Technical Committee on the Development of a Roadmap and Operational Framework for Halal Certification in Nigeria. Minister of state for industry, trade and investment, Amb. Mariam Yalwaji Katagum, officially inaugurated the committee in Abuja yesterday. Amb. Katagum noted that “There is clearly an increasing demand for Halal certified products globally, especially, amongst the large Muslim population in the Middle East, North Africa, South Africa, South Asia, the former Soviet Union and China, which presents a lucrative chain for the food market. As at today, the global consumer base of Halal products is estimated to be about 1.9 billion Muslims across 112 countries, and the Halal market is estimated to be worth trillions of US Dollars. “And Nigeria’s Muslim population is estimated at about 52 per cent of the nation’s population and adherents of Islam are usually selective in making Halal choices when it comes to lifestyle and product consumptions. Aside from the Islamic population, there is a huge number of people around the world that also prefer to consume Halal products based on healthy lifestyle choices. “ Halal market is a huge and profitable segment of the economy and cannot afford to ignore the importance of assuring our local and international consumers that our food and beverage products are Halal certified and comply with islamic law. Such certifications would give Nigeria products a boost in local and international markets. “Also, Halal certification significantly enhances the marketability of products outside the country and the document is an important requirement on importing countries.” The minister acknowledged that the Halal concept is at its embryonic stage in Nigeria and has largely been uncoordinated, with lack of synergy between relevant institutions and the situation has led to absence of uniformity in instituting Halal standards in the country, as well as the inability of Nigeria to tap into the Halal global market. She also noted that there is huge potential in the Halal sub-sector with the global Halal market estimated to be about $2.6 trillion and countries like Morocco and Malaysia were already benefiting from the Halal economy with Morocco exporting to over 23 countries and Malaysia earning about $7 billion in exports. She pointed out that Nigeria has not been able to take advantage of the huge market to boost foreign earnings, increase investment and adopt the concept to contribute to the growth and development of the economy, hence the ministry proactively decided to establish a committee to address the issue by studying the various models being used by other successful countries and developing a tailor-made strategic plan and operational framework for Nigeria. The minister disclosed that members of the committee were carefully selected from key Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and the Organised Private Sector (OPS) involved in the Halal value-chain and is being chaired by Mr. Nour Sani Hanga from Halal Standard Development Trust (HASDAT) and co- chaired  by the director, Commodity  and Export department  in the ministry, Mr. Suleman Adebayo Audu. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Nour  Hanga, in his response thanked the ministry for taking the lead in the effort to develop a robust Halal industry in Nigeria.