The youth wing of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC) has urged Nigerian youths, especially Igbos to get ready for ballot revolution in the 2023 general election. The national president of OYC and spokesman of Indigenous Ethnic Youth Leaders of Nigeria, Comrade Igboayaka O. Igboayaka, stated this yesterday at Sam Mbakwe Cargo Airport, Owerri. Igboayaka recently embarked on series of consultation meetings in readiness for the ethnic nationalities/ Southern youth leaders’ summit coming up in Owerri, the Imo State capital. He reiterated that the only available option for Igbo youths and Nigerian youths at large is to make use of ongoing voter’s registration exercise to register en-mass all the youth from 18 years and above in order to secure their future in the next political dispensation. The OYC leader insisted that all political profiteers in Igbo nation would be sacked at the forthcoming 2023 general elections, hence there will be a political tsunami in the entire Igbo land. He urged every eligible voter to embrace the opportunity created by the new voter’s registration to register and obtain their PVC. “I detest the lackadaisical approach of new generation of Igbo extraction over the re-registration of voter registration. 2023 general election will be a political tsunami in Igbo land, there will be total retirement of all politicians that have stolen our wealth from 1999 till date. The Igbo youth shall organize a send-forth protest to all National Assembly benchwarmers. None of the governor’s from Igbo extraction shall near the Senate seat. “The youth shall beat a new drum for our governors who think that it’s a political culture that after eight years looting, misappropriation and diversion of local funds they will acquire senatorial seat. This culture of decorating looters with juicy position must stop as we open a new political chapter from 2023. “I therefore advice all the legible voters from secondary schools to university level to earnestly use this recent new voters’ registration to register and get the PVC, the parents and guidance should verily ensure that youths under their care are all registered to vote in 2023 general election,” he said. Also, Igboayaka noted that “if Igbo youth will translate their population into PVC, Southeast at least will record over 50 million votes. There is no community in Igbo land that’s not up to 15, 000 people. The data shows that there’s over 660 autonomous communities in Imo State and each of the community population is over 15, 000 people, making only Imo population approximately 9.9 million people.”