The chairman of  Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, has disbanded the convention sub-committees for the March 26 national convention of the party put in place by former acting chairman and Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello. Buni in a statement issued on Thursday reassured members and stakeholders of the party, as well as Nigerians in general, that the governing party was crisis-free. Buni and the national secretary of CECPC, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, had regained control of the party Wednesday as chairman and Secretary of the Central Planning Committee of the convention respectively following a directive by President Muhammadu Buhari. In the disbanded subconmittees constituted by Bello when he acted as acting chairman last week, Buni and Akpanudoedehe’s names were conspicuously missing. With the latest development, the subcommittees earlier constituted by Buni will now take charge of preparations for the convention. The statement reads: “The Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the Chairmanship of Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, makes this press release to clarify the events of last week and reassure the membership and stakeholders of the Party, as well as the Nigerian people in general, that the Governing party is crisis-free, strong and remains united in giving the country the transformative leadership and good governance which she promised them. “As approved by the Chairman, H E. (Gov.) Mai Mala Buni, please find below the list of Chairmen, Deputy Chairmen and Secretaries of the various sub-committees for the 2022 APC National Convention (as earlier published).” The Secretariat Committee will now be chaired by Mr. Abdulahi Gasua, while Mr. Dare Oketade will serve as Secretary. The Screening Committee would be headed by Gov. Abdulrazaq AbdulRahman of Kwara state, while the Screening Appeal Committee would be headed by Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo state. Buni has also appointed Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun state as the Elections/Planning Committee Chairman, while the Elections Appeal Committee is chaired by Katsina state Governor, Aminu Masari. The Media Committee is now chaired by the Governor of Lagos state, Babatunde Sanwo-Olu as Chairman and former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode as his Deputy. The Minister of Justice and the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, heads the Legal Committee, Chief Niyi Akintola would serve as the Deputy and Juliet Ibekaku would serve as the Secretary. The Accommodation Committee is headed by the Governor of Zamfara state, Bello Matawalle, while the Venue/Accommodation/Site Supervisory Committee is chaired by the Governor of Ebonyi state Dave Umahi.  See Full List: Central Coordinating
H.E. (Hon.) Mai Mala Buni – Chairman
Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe Ph.D – Secretary Secretariat
Abdullahi Yusuf Gashu’a – Chairman
Barr. Dare Oketade – Secretary Screening
H.E. Gov. Abdulrazak Abdulrahman – Chairman
H.E. (Sen.) Andy Ubah – Deputy Chairman
Barr. Shuaibu Aruwa SAN – Secretary Screening Appeal
H.E. Gov. Hope Uzodinma –  Chairman
Dr. Danjuma Adamu Dabo – Secretary Elections/Planning
H.E. Gov. Dapo Abiodun – Chairman
Sen. Bassey Otu – Deputy Chairman
Chief Ikechi Emenike – Secretary Elections Appeal
H.E. Gov. Aminu Masari – Chairman
H.E. Barr. M.K Abubakar – Deputy Chairman
Barr. Moses Okezie – Secretary Legal
AGF Abubakar Malami SAN – Chairman
Chief Niyi Akintola SAN – Deputy Chairman
Barr. Juliet Ibekaku – Secretary Accommodation
H.E. Gov. Bello Matawalle – Chairman
Rt. Hon. Oladimeji Bankole – Deputy Chairman
Dr. Zainab Gimba – Secretary Venue/Site Servicing
H.E. Gov. Dave Umahi – Chairman
Hon. Mohammed Bello – Deputy Chairman
Sen. Stella Oduah – Secretary Transportation/Logistics
H.E. Gov. Simon Bako Lalong – Chairman
Hajiya Sadia Umar Farouk – Deputy Chairman
Hajia Ireti Kingibe – Secretary Media/Publicity
H.E. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu – Chairman
Chief Femi Fani-Kayode – Deputy Chairman
Hon. Kingsley Fanwo – Secretary Security/Protocol
H.E. Gov. Yahaya Bello – Chairman
Air Marshal Abubakar Sidiq (Rtd.) – Deputy Chairman
Gen. Dahiru Abdulsalam (Rtd.) – Secretary Accreditation
H.E. Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege – Chairman
Rt. Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha Ph.D – Deputy Chairman
Hon. Godwin Afangideh – Secretary Entertainment/Welfare
Rt. Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase – Chairman
H.E. Nsima Ekere – Deputy Chairman
Ahmed Bala – Secretary Medical
H.E. Gov. Ben Ayade – Chairman
Dr. Emmanuel A. Akabe – Deputy Chairman
Hon. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu – Secretary Budget
H.E. Gov. Inuwa Yahaya – Chairman
H.E. Chief Niyi Adebayo – Deputy Chairman
Mr. Umana Okon Umana – Secretary Finance
H.E. Gov Badaru Abubakar – Chairman
Hon. Abdullahi Ebilolobo – Deputy Chairman
Sen. Margery Okadigbo – Secretary Accreditation of Volunteers/Diplomats/Diaspora/Observers
H.E. Gov. Umaru Ganduje – Chairman
H.E. Geoffrey Onyema – Deputy Chairman
Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa – Secretary Digital Communication
H.E. Gov. Nasir El-Rufai – Chairman
H.E. Nkem Okeke – Deputy Chairman
Kashifulnuwa Abdulahi – Secretary Convention Legacy and Rapporteurs
H.E. Gov. Babagana U. Zulum – Chairman
H.E. Babatunde R. Fashola – Deputy Chairman
Prof. Ussiju Medaner – Secretary