Some members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna State, has petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) against Senator representing Kaduna Central and governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Uba Sani, over the alleged use of NIRSAL COVID-19 funds to bribe party executives to secure the APC governorship ticket in the State. In the petition addressed to the chairman of the anti-graft agency, Abdulrasheed Bawa, concerned PDP members alleged that Sani’s action has created political tension in the state.  In a copy of the petition duly acknowledged by the office of the EFCC chairman, and sighted by our correspondent, the group accused the APC of using funds meant for Nigerians to bribe party executives. The petition added that the APC in the state has “continued to show brazen corruption and lawlessness.” The group revealed that there are video evidences showing Senator Sani promising to share NIRSAL COVID-19 loans to APC party delegates. “We hereby urge the EFCC to investigate and sanction urgently the APC and its aspirant, Senator Uba Sani, who are clearly using the elections to commit financial crimes against the people of Kaduna and Nigeria,” a part of the petition signed by Elias Timburk, reads. But the lawmaker has rubbished the petition in a statement issued by his zonal chief constituency officer, Abubakar Rabiu Abubakar. He claimed that he encouraged and mobilised over 10,000 members of his constituency to benefit from the scheme. He also denied the allegation that he was compiling account numbers for the purpose of bribing the electorate. Senator Uba Sani said that he only partnered with CBN in organising seminars and trainings for his contituents on the need to be financially included as a basis for benefitting from empowerment programmes, government loan schemes and other subsidies in the country. The lawmaker while berating the petitioners, urged the EFCC ignore the petition. “The EFCC have enough on their plate to worry about, not to be treating ill-conceived and mischievous petitions that are not grounded in facts or logic,” he added.