An advocacy group under the aegis of Abuja Grassroots Advocacy Projects (AGAP) has berated All Progressives Congress (APC) senators for failing to support the people of Abuja and alter the provision of the Constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, to provide for Office of Mayor for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja and related matters. Chief advocate of the group, Comrade Yunusa Yusuf, in a press briefing also threatened that if the senators continue to ignore sensitive matters that have direct bearing on the plight of FCT indigenes, the indigenous people of FCT might be pushed to the wall to boycott the 2023 general election. He however commended the only senator representing the FCT, Senator Phillip Aduda for lobbying his colleagues to support the Mayoral bill in favour of FCT natives. He said the senator has so far showcased his love and sacrifices for the FCT people. Yusuf further applauded the effort and doggedness of the principal officers of the House of Representatives, Hon Sokodobo, Hon Jiba, and Hon Gbefwi for standing by the FCT  people to ensure that the bill scaled through in favour of FCT indigenes at the lower chamber. He called on Nigerians to question the rationale behind the negative voting of the senators on the mayoral status of the FCT, especially the senators from the far North of the country. He regretted the support the indigenous people of FCT gave to the APC to win two-third of the votes in 2015 and  2019 to clinch the presidency which he said would be difficult for the APC in 2023. He also reminded Nigerians of the July 4, 1978 policy reversal made by former head of state, General Olusegun Obasanjo to stop the evacuation of FCT natives as earlier recommended by Justice Akinola Aguda. He added that the decision affirmed that FCT has never been a ‘virgin land’ or ‘no man’s land’ as misconceived by some Nigerians. According to him, the sacrifices of the FCT indigenous people should be seen by the elites as an everlasting sacrifice that should be paid back by any policy that will favour and reduce the long-suffering of the Abuja original inhabitants. 