NEITI listed the revenue streams that accounted for the liabilities to include royalty oil, royalty gas, concession rentals, Petroleum Profit Tax, Company Income Tax, Education tax, Value Added Tax and Withholding Tax among others. It is pertinent to point out that the debts are part of the revenues due to the Federation by the defunct Department of Petroleum Resources and the Federal Inland Revenue Service. It is also important to note that Nigeria is in dire need of revenues to close the wipe infrastructure gaps, address the weak health sector and improve the quality of education among other critical needs. Indeed, due to leakages and non-remittance of taxes like the one by some of the oil and gas companies, revenue accruing to the states from the federal account has continued to shrink. Tellingly, owing to paucity of fund, the 2022 budget will largely be funded through external borrowings, which will, as should be expected, further increase the nation’s debt burden. The 2022 budget has a deficit of about N6.25trillion, approximately 3.39 per cent of GDP, a figure slightly above the three percent ceiling set by the Fiscal Responsibility Act 2007. The worrisome aspect of this situation is that the government is insisting that the deficit would be financed by new borrowings, privatisation proceeds and drawdown on loans secured for specific projects. We find it hard to believe that under this precarious situation, the nation has almost three trillion naira in debt owed the federal government by oil and gas companies operating in the country. While we laud NEITI for this disclosure, we expect it to proceed a step further by naming the defaulting companies because we believe, and rightly, so, that non-remittance of tax under whatever guise is an economic sabotage that ought not be treated with levity. Nigerians need to know these companies that appear to have no qualms acting in ways that are detrimental to the health of the nation’s economy. Now, more than even before, the government is in need of these funds as it strive to rebuild the nation’s infrastructure and improve the country’s investment climate. Fundamentally, the oil and gas companies have no reason not to live up to their obligations as far as payment of taxes, royalties and levies to the Federation is concerned. They do so in other jurisdictions of their operations and must be made to do it here. Interestingly, the House of Representatives has vowed to recover this humongous debt and already, its adhoc committee empaneled specifically for that purpose has commenced sitting. Good enough, the committee chair, Nkiruka Onyejeocha assured that the committee would liaise with NEITI and ensure that the debt is fully paid to the government. We expect the committee to be meticulous in its work and it should leave no stone unturned. The nation cannot be looking for money to fund the 2022 budget yet overlooking such huge debt. However, we find it expedient to remind the lawmakers that Nigerians are no longer fascinated at their probe because often times the reports rarely see the light of day. Beside the euphoria that greets public hearings of such committees, what becomes of their reports is often shrouded in secrecy. There are plethora of such committees that their reports are either not made public and hence are in the shelves gathering dust, or at best, not implemented at all. We recall the euphoria that greeted the Ndidi Elumelu-led House of Reps’ power committee, the NDDC probe and similar other committees set up following allegations of corruption and or other malpractices in some critical sectors. The unanswered question remains: what happens afterwards? As for the N2.6 trillion unremitted revenue by the oil and gas firms, government needs to be firm in handling the matter as what is needed largely, is concerted efforts by relevant government agencies in ensuring that taxes due to the government are duly remitted. We note rather sadly, that over times, there has been widespread reports of allege non-remittance or under-remittance of taxes by even some ministries, departments and agencies of government that have revenue generation functions. Perhaps this act, which regularly gets reported by the media, is part of what emboldened the oil and gas firms to deliberately refuse to remit taxes due to the government. This economic sabotage must be squarely addressed with concrete measures taken to avoid a repeat.