The Joint Venture, JV consisting of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company, (NNPC) Limited, Dangote Fertiliser Limited, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), ENI, Gas Aggregation Company of Nigeria (GACN), Nigeria Agip Oil Company and TotalEnergies, has signed a multi-million dollars deal to supply 70 million standard cubic feet (scuf) of gas to Dangote Fertilizer Company. The Gas Sale and Aggregation (GSA) Agreement for the phase two fertiliser plant, was signed in Abuja on the sideline of the ongoing fifth Nigeria International Energy Summit (NIES 2022) The deal which would help the fertilizer output by the company, will save the country up to $1.8 billion in foreign exchange earnings. The signing was attended by President of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote; Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari; Country Chair of Osagie Okunbor; and ENI representatives. The deals involving the JV of NNPC, Shell, ENI, and TotalEnergies will deliver 70million scuf of gas daily to Dangote Fertilizer. Speaking at the event, Kyari said that the contract was perfected within a short period based on its importance to the production of fertiliser and agro-economic growth of Nigeria. “As you are aware, Dangote Fertilizer is one of the biggest producers of fertiliser and this deal, which is to offer 70m scuf per day to Dangote Fertilizer by the JV, will contribute to the surge of Fertaliser production in Nigeria. Of course, it will tremendously be positive to our agro-economy,” Kyari said. This, he said, would no doubt increase gas in the domestic market. “But more importantly, it is a platform that will increase local production of fertiliser in our country. “As you may be aware, it is government’s drive to ensure that we become self sufficient in the production of fertiliser in the country, and specifically for this year’s zero import of fertilisation in the country. “Currently, Dangote group provides about 65 per cent of all domestic production of fertiliser. And we are happy to sign the Gas Supply Agreement with them,” Kyari said. Responding, Alhaji Dangote stated that though the volume of gas for the deal may relatively be considered marginal, it will go a long way in promoting more access to fertilisers for the country. According to him, with this deal, Nigeria is set to become the largest producer of fertilizer in Africa, along with Indorama and Notore. “With this additional capacity will help us to bring in more foreign exchange into the country, especially now with the energy crisis. This fertilizer plant along with that of Indorama and Notore, Nigeria is almost like, second largest, apart from Egypt. “No other African country now has our capacity and we be able meet of the domestic market demand and then we’ll be able to export, at least, you’re talking about something like about $1.8 billion in terms of foreign exchange coming into the country. So it’s really, really an important milestone. He thanked the NNPC GMD for his effort in actualising the signing of the agreement. In his remark, Mr Osagie Okunbor, Chairman, Shell Company, thanked the joint team that have worked extremely hard to sign the gas sale aggregation agreement. “It is huge important to this country because already Dangote produces the bulk of fertiliser and we know how important the subject of agriculture is and for not just energy security, but also food security. “This is why all of us on the SPDC JV led by the NNPC but also with my colleagues in TotalEnergies really pleased to be able to execute this agreement,” he said.