Founder of Abuja-based Human Rights Radio and presenter of a popular human rights breakfast show called ‘Brekete Family’, Ahmed Isa, a.ka. Ordinary President, has slammed a woman, Ruth Matthew, including her co-conspirators for claiming that her child went missing from a church in Warri, Delta State. Ordinary President, while speaking during the live radio show on Tuesday, said he can’t be used in pulling down anyone, stressing that the radio station would not be involved in cases built on falsehoods to even with people. Reacting to the purported case of a missing child at Christ Mercy Land Church in Warri, Ordinary President said the woman who brought the case to Human Rights Radio in Abuja could not substantiate her claims and was only looking for ways to use the opportunity to move abroad. While some people had accused the radio station of being bribed into dropping the ‘missing child’ case, Ordinary President said most of the people accusing the station were only looking for cheap publicity and that he would have rather continue the case if the complainant was able to substantiate the allegation against the church. Ruth Matthew had reported her child missing from the church, accusing the founder, Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin, of complicity, an allegation the cleric vehemently denied. The case was also dismissed by the Police, which noted that it was inconsistent with the truth. The popular Abuja radio presenter said the story the woman had told the station was different until the Nigerian Police Force appeared on the show, providing a narration totally contradicting Ruth Matthew’s story. “She didn’t tell us that she went (to the church) with any grown up person. She didn’t mention that she sent her children to buy things for her. Anybody that has lied once has the capability to lie again. I asked her about the father of the children but she couldn’t provide a straight answer. Yet we kept following the case. But immediately I heard her talk about her abroad plan I became suspicious,” Ahmed Isa said.