Ahead of the March 26 national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) party stakeholders have reaffirmed their support for national chairmanship candidate and former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. The group, which consist of elders of the party, present and former APC lawmakers, present and former state party excos and youths of the party across the 36 states of the federation said, it has become imperative to make their position known as the date of the convention draws nearer. Speaking to a select press, the leader of the group and former lawmaker in Adamawa State, Engr Adamu Auta Fufure said, what the APC needs right now is a man like Senator Abdullahi, who understands the party and is well respected by party members. “He is a serial political winner and a big bridge builder, and that is exactly what the party needs right now. A leader that will bring harmony, cooperation and progressive to the party especially as we approach the 2023 polls”, Fufure added. Also speaking, Sani Baba Kano said, the popularity and acceptance of Senator Adamu is an indication that he is a true party man, who has worked for the peace and progress of the APC and every party he belongs to over the last four decades. “Very few people have contributed to the development of this country and the development of the party like Senator Abdullahi Adamu has done. Personally, I feel those opposing his chairmanship ambition are people who don’t have the best interest of the party at heart”. On her part, Evelyn Johnson from Akwa Ibom State and a former women leader stated that the aspirant respects every known democratic ethos and principles and that he is a true bridge builder. An APC Youth leader from Oyo State, Bamidele Lekan Martins said, “I have never met Senator Abdullahi Adamu and I have never spoken to him or anybody close to him about his chairmanship ambition but for anybody who loves the APC, we know that Senator Abdullahi Adamu is the best man for the job.”