T he President Muhammadu Buhari government will no doubt be commended for his resolve to takeover, continue, sustain and still fund some very important projects and policies inherited from its predecessor in 2015. One of such well thought-out policies that the Buhari administration has sustained is the Nigerian Sugar Master Plan (NSMP), a 10-year roadmap policy which seeks to meaningfully revitalise the once vibrant sugar sub-sector and make Nigeria one of the leading sugar-producing nations within the continent. The sugar roadmap policy which its actual implementation began in 2013 is anchored on four major planks which are; to raise local production of sugar to attain self-sufficiency, to stem the rising tide of unbridled importation of the commodity, to create huge number of job opportunities and to also contribute to the production of ethanol and generation of electricity. Though the National Sugar Development Council (NSDC) is the leading implementing agency of the policy, its implementation involves allocation of responsibilities to engender maximum participation by all relevant stakeholders like the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, Standards Organization of Nigeria, Nigeria Customs Service, Central Bank of Nigeria, Federal Ministry of Finance as well as other relevant MDAs as well as stakeholder institutions and facilitators such as millers, importers, cane growers and banks equally play pivotal roles in the implementation of the master plan. The journey to self-sufficiency in sugar production has not been without some hiccups, but federal government through the NSDC, under the leadership of Mr. Zacch Adedeji as executive secretary is committed to addressing those peculiar challenges frontally as seen in a number of innovative and pragmatic steps taken since he came on board in March 2021. It is an open secret that Nigeria has since met and surpassed its raw sugar refining capacity, which is a major component of the NSMP, a feat which government is trying its best to replicate in the Backward Integration Programme (BIP) aspect of the Nigerian Sugar Master Plan (NSMP). Recently, to encourage investors in the sector, President Buhari launched a $73 million irrigation infrastructure fund to cushion the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on sugar operators implementing the BIP project, namely Dangote Sugar Refinery, BUA Sugar Refinery and Golden Sugar Refinery. Speaking at the official unveiling of the intervention fund in Abuja, the president said, “the aim of this intervention is to significantly improve the country’s performance on cane yields as well as reduce the negative impact of COVID-19 on the industry’s progress in achieving national self-sufficiency. Consequently, this strategic intervention will enable the country’s leading sugar producers; Dangote, BUA and Flour Mills sugar to expand capacity and capitalise on the import substitution opportunity within the sugar market, to further reduce the country’s import bill”. In his remarks at the event, the executive secretary of the NSDC, Mr. Zacch Adedeji said the intervention was part of government’s determination to provide an enabling environment for private investments to thrive and flourish in the country. “Preliminary activities, including identification of the specific project sites for each operator which include framework for design and engineering services for the in-field and bulk water supply systems, project management and maintenance specifications, adoption of a business model and costing, among others have been concluded long before the formal commissioning of this laudable initiative”. To clear the air on certain misconceptions in some quarters on alleged favouritism and wilful distortion of the master plan by some operators, Zacch debunked such claims saying, “the NSMP is no longer a policy. It is now an Act of the National Assembly following its amendments in 2015. We shall no longer condone or tolerate deliberate distortion of the master plan by anyone. On our part as a regulator, we will not hesitate to apply the full weight of the law against anyone or group of persons caught trying to sabotage government’s efforts in the sector”. The Council recently displayed its renewed vigour and avowed commitment to the success of the NSMP when it made the BIP operators to sign recommitment forms, pledging to stick to the provisions of the master plan and comply with all laid down policies in the sector. Mr. Adedeji who said future raw sugar quota allocation to refineries will be hinged on BIP performance, said the era of quota allocation based on size of factor or sugar estate was far over. To this end, he said the federal government through the Council has established two sugarcane bio-factories, located in Zaria, Kaduna state and Ilorin, Kwara state to help in the rapid multiplication of cane seeds of sugar estates.  The bio-factories have been commercialised as they sell healthy and disease-free cane seeds to sugar estates within the country and general improvement in refinery capacity utilisation which today stands at 60 per cent. “Nigeria’s quest to attain self-sufficiency in sugar production remains our major priority.  We shall ride on the back of the sugar Backward Integration Programme which is a key component of the Nigerian Sugar Master Plan realize our aspirations in the sector,” Adedeji noted. The BIP for the sugar sub-sector under the Nigerian Sugar Mater Plan (NSMP), was primarily designed to grow Nigeria’s sugar sector to enable it become self-sufficient in the production of the commodity.  Since the implementation began in 2013, a number of achievements have been recorded in the sector.