Also, the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), has been on a rampage to clear the country of illegal digital banks and financial institutions. Just yesterday, the FCPCC said it has frozen the accounts of some money lenders being investigated for violating the rights of consumers. Many Nigerians, including those who should know better, have over the years lost huge about of hard earned monies to so called ‘investment schemes’. Some have lost life’s savings in the process. According to an Annual Report of the Nigeria Electronic Fraud Forum, the Nigerian investing public lost N11.9 billion to the MMM and over N28.7 billion was invested in the scheme between June and December 2016. The report further revealed that N28.7 billion was the actual amount of money that passed through the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System Plc and involved only 14 banks currently on the NIBSS Industry Anti-fraud System. The report noted that the loss could be much higher than the figures quoted. Also, the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation, revealed that an estimated three million Nigerians lost N18 billion to the MMM between 2015 and 2016, while over N106 billion was also lost by investors to the Nospecto scheme within the same period  How can a prospective investor identify which scheme is genuine or scam? You  have all heard the saying ‘if it’s too good to be true, it probably is’. So why do people still fall for get-rich-quick scams? Well, because they come dressed up as a great investment promising a good return, in a short space of time.  How do you spot a get-rich-quick scheme? Many people often know that what they are being sold is possibly a little sketchy, but when they have already started imagining the fancy lifestyles that the returns being promised can buy them, they probably start rationalising that if all these other people are doing it, it can’t be a scam! Sorry … but all those other people were duped too. If it does not feel right, it probably is not. And besides, when it comes to your cash sometimes safe is better than sorry. Though times are tough and the promise of some easy money is hard to pass up. But there are safer, more legitimate ways to make some extra cash. So here something everyone can do to augment your regular income:  Start a side hustle Look at what skills and passions you have or identify a gap in the market, and then start marketing on social media. The socials are a great and affordable platform to reach potential customers. Remember, when it comes to your cash sometimes safe is better than sorry 