The national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) , which will produce a new leadership for the party, had been elusive for various reasons amidst lots of political intrigues. The Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) which has served as the interim leadership of the ruling party has had its tenure extended a couple of times, ostensibly to enable it to put the house in order before party leaders gather to choose a new leader. During this waiting period, those aspiring to lead the party have grown in numbers. This is largely due to the uncertainty surrounding the zoning of offices in the party. Many aspirants, especially from the North, have thrown their hats into the ring believing that the seat of the national chairman would be zoned to their sub-region, including North East, North Central and North West. At the initial stage, the contest was thrown wide open and this brought to the podium as many as eleven chairmanship aspirants including the former deputy national chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Alhaji Saliu Mustapha; Mohammed Saidu Estu; former Governor of Nasarawa State, Alhaji Tanko Almakura; former Governor of Borno State, Ali Modu Sheriff; and the Senator representing Niger East District, Mohammed Sani-Musa. Other aspirants who also showed interest in the job were a former Governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari; former Governor of Bauchi State, Alhaji Isa Yuguda; former Governor of Borno State, Sen Kashim Shettima; former Governor of Gombe State, Sen Danjuma Goje; and minister of special duties and intergovernmental affairs, Sen George Akume; a former Governor of Nasarawa State and chairman of the National Reconciliation Committee of the party, Sen Abdullahi Adamu; and former FCT chairman of defunct ACN, Sunny Moniedafe. With this array of personalities, each having his own pedigree, the questions that will be on the lips of delegates to the convention are: Who shall we send? Whom does the cap fit? Who wears the crown? While former Governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Adamu, was said to have been endorsed by President Muhammadu Buhari, the aspirants have rejected the purported endorsement. But the APC national stakeholders have rejected purported plan to handover the party to Adamu as national chairman at its forthcoming national convention. The stakeholders hinged their rejection on the supportive role Adamu played during the aborted third term agenda of former president Olusegun Obasanjo, and his alleged issue with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Aliu Audu who read the position of the stakeholders also announced the rejection of former Senate president, Ken Nnamani as APC deputy national chairman (South). “As stakeholders, we have always been against imposition in whatever guise, considering our belief that whenever a consensus option is adopted, as long as it is not predated by wide consultation, it would no doubt violate every known democratic ethos and principles. The lingering and now widespread speculation as to the plan to bring a former member of the PDP in the person of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the APC National Chairman in the forthcoming convention, where loyal, qualified and competent foundation members of the APC are also in the race is not only an aberration but a violation of the established principle of APC which respects long term fidelity to the party and frowns at every vestige of injustice,” the group said. No doubt, all the people vying for the chairmanship are eminently qualified to lead the party but as the race draws closer, pundits within the party are beginning to take a second look at each of these aspirants to ascertain who can best serve the interest of the party. This thorough assessment has become necessary because they all know that whoever emerges as the next national chairman of the APC already has his job cut out for him. It would be his lot to revive the party, reconcile the aggrieved members and ultimately lead it to victory at the 2023 general elections. As of last week, there were strong indications that the position of the national chairman has been zoned to the North Central geopolitical zone. This indication emerged after the meeting of the Progressive Governors Forum which was held in Abuja. Although no formal announcement was made on the issue, sources within the forum who monitored the meeting said the governors had decided to take that route as part of a chain of strategic calculations that would see the APC repositioning itself in the power game. If that permutation is anything to go by, it means the race has been narrowed down to only those aspirants from the North Central zone. The aspirants from this zone include Alhaji Saliu Mustapha (Kwara), Mohammed Sani Musa ( Niger), Sen George Akume (Benue), Sen Abdulahi Adamu (Nasarawa), Sen Tanko Al-Makura (Nasarawa). This makes it a clear five-horse race in which only the very best would be good enough to wear the coveted crown. It may interest you to know that key stakeholders in the APC are not just looking for a national chairman who presides over meetings at the national headquarters of the party but are hunting for someone who can match the assemblage of forces in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the main opposition in the country. National chairman of PDP, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, is a former Senator who was elected President of the Senate during the Third Republic. He later served in various ministerial positions during President Olusegun Obasanjo’s tenure between 1999 and 2007. Before his foray into politics, Ayu was in the academia and an activist who rose to become the chairman, Academic Staff Union of Universities( ASUU) at the University of Jos. This intimidating profile is what some stakeholders in the APC are seeking to counter in their choice of the next national chairman and incidentally, their political compass appears to be pointing towards Benue State. A political analyst from one of the think tanks in the APC told LEADERSHIP Friday that Sen George Akume virtually holds the ace in the forthcoming chairmanship race for several reasons. “ The APC needs to plot its game very strategically bearing in mind that we are not just looking for a national chairman for the fun of it. We’re looking for a personality who will fit into the emerging scenario, especially the possibility of the presidential ticket shifting to the South and the likelihood of a Tinubu picking it. “ Of course, if that happens, Tinubu, a Muslim from the South, will need not only a strong, solid Northern Christian as running mate but the party also needs a strong bridge builder as national chairman who is also a Christian otherwise the party will still be battling to pull off that toga of being a Muslim party. While we cannot put our fingers yet on who becomes Tinubu’s running mate, Akume, a Christian comes very handy in taking charge of the party. This will douse a lot of tension and give the party the needed mileage ahead of thenelection,” he said. According to the analyst, Akume holds the aces in terms of status, name recognition, political career and capacity to hold the party together. Although Akume might be at par with Sen Abdullahi Adamu and Sen Tanko Al-Makura, as former governors, he towers above the duo in terms of his current position in government, as well as his comportment and vast contacts across the length and breadth of the country. In some circles, it was learnt, he’s regarded as the dark horse not because his name does not ring a bell, but because he has chosen to pursue his ambition in a modest way. Although he is eminently qualified for the job and has indicated his interest, he has not embarked on elaborate campaigns like some of his peers. “He is privileged to be a serving cabinet minister and appears to have the tacit endorsement of his boss and some other powerful forces within the party. He’s not a loud man and does not display wild ambition like some other politicians would do, but he’s deeply entrenched in the party and commands the respect of the five APC governors from his zone. “Again, temperament is key in leadership. Do you know that some are seeking this office for some ulterior, selfish motives? They want to use the office to lord it over some persons including the governors of their states. If such persons are allowed to emerge, it means the party will return to the Oshiomhole era where the ego war between a party chairman and his state governor nearly destroyed the party,” a party chieftain said. Indeed, apart from Akume whose state governor, Samuel Ortom,is of the PDP, the other aspirants from Kwara, Niger and Nasarawa have the governors of the respective states to contend with as the race gets closer to the finishing line. In these other states, the coast appears unclear as no serving governor wants the national chairman of his own party to emerge from his state. It goes without saying, that for the stability of the party you need to elect a candidate who will not be embroiled in a supremacy contest with his governor over the control of the party. In recent weeks, many political support groups have been paying solidarity visits to Akume’s residence in Abuja while his campaign office located in the highbrow Maitama District, Abuja has also witnessed a beehive of activities. The most recent was the visit of two groups, namely the Katsina – based Northern APC National Front (NAPCNF) and the Bauchi – based Coalition of North East APC Groups (CNEAPCG) who came to pay him homage. Ayuba Hassan who spoke on behalf of both groups said they came to express their solid support for Sen George Akume’s aspiration to become the new national chairman of the ruling party. Hassan said the visit was also meant to brief Akume of the work both groups have been doing in the North East and North West regions in furtherance of his aspiration. He assured Akume that both groups as well as numerous other support groups will continue to work together until victory is achieved at the forthcoming national convention. In response, Sen Akume expressed appreciation to the support groups and charged them to continue to conduct their mobilisation activities in peace, remain law abiding and accord due respect to other aspirants. The former governor and now minister urged them not to personalise issues or provoke anyone but to remain focused on their primary goal.