Nigeria’s army for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 playoff battle with Ghana started their preparations yesterday in Abuja ahead of departure to Kumasi on Thursday. The West African arch rivals will tango at the 40,000 –capacity Baba Yara Stadium on Friday evening, in the first leg of a potentially –explosive fixture in which both teams will battle for a single ticket to the 22nd FIFA World Cup finals. The return leg at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja is expected to be even pulsating and fiery. 21 of the 25 invited players had arrived at The Wells Carlton Hotel and Apartments camp after the arrival of Napoli forward Victor Osimhen. Osimhen arrived the team’s The Wells Carlton Hotel base yesterday’s afternoon and spent time in the gym ahead of the team’s first training session at the Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja. The 23-year-old’s arrival increased the number players in camp to 21. The duo of Umar Sadiq and Akinkunmi Amoo were still expected in camp at the press time yesterday. While, Leicester City of England playmaker Ademola Lookman and new invitee John Noble are expected to join team today. Friday’s encounter in Kumasi will be the 58th clash between the two countries’ senior teams, with 18 of those matches having ended in draws. The first encounter was on 20th October 1951, which Nigeria won 5-0. The last time both teams were involved in a FIFA World Cup qualifying fixture was in 2001, with both seeking a spot at the Korea/Japan 2002 finals. The opening leg at the Accra Sports Stadium was stalemated 0-0, before Nigeria won the return 3-0 inside the Liberation Stadium in Port Harcourt on 29th July 2001. Their last meeting, in a friendly match that was staged in London on 11th October 2011, ended 0-0. Captain Ahmed Musa and deputy captain William Ekong are among the 18 players who are already in camp for the two big games. Meanwhile, goalkeeper Maduka Okoye has fallen ill and Coach Augustine Eguavoen has extended an invitation to Enyimba FC goalkeeper John Noble to join the squad. Already in camp: William Ekong, Leon Balogun, Oluwasemilogo Ajayi, Olaoluwa Aina, Frank Onyeka, Odion Ighalo, Daniel Akpeyi, Ahmed Musa, Oghenekaro Etebo, Kelechi Iheanacho, Abdullahi Shehu, Francis Uzoho, Moses Simon, Emmanuel Dennis, Joseph Ayodele-Aribo, Calvin Bassey, Innocent Bonke and Kenneth Omeruo. 