The President has, thus, laid to rest all the whispers, speculations, nay sayings and conspiracy theories about why Mr President didn’t want to sign the Bill into law. Considering that after the 2011 General Elections, there had been agitations for the electoral law to be improved upon and amended, This was in the hope of enabling this important piece of legislation to accommodate various provisions towards making elections credible particularly, with the use of technology to improve the electoral process. In April last year, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced the dates for the 2023 General Elections. February 18th, 2023 was earmarked for the Presidential and National Assembly elections and March 4th, 2023 was chosen for the governorship and state houses of assembly elections. However due to provisions in the new Electoral Act, Presidential and National Assembly elections will now hold on Saturday, March 25th, 2023, while governorship and state houses of assembly elections will hold on March 11th, 2023. Previous attempts to amend the country’s electoral laws were unsuccessful during the 8th National Assembly. Lawmakers in the 9th Assembly were however successful in amending the act, but not without setbacks. In November 2021, the President had withheld assent to the Electoral Bill citing various considerations that includes security challenges, possible manipulation of electoral processes by political players, cost of conducting direct primaries, among others. The President subsequently gave several conditions in order for him to append his signature on the Bill. This prompted lawmakers to re-work the bill, leading to the emergence of two versions in the Senate and House of Representatives. The House had re-amended the bill to include the direct and indirect primary options while the Senate re-adjusted it to include the direct, indirect, and consensus modes of selecting political parties’ candidates. Both chambers of the legislature later passed the harmonized version towards the end of January, which included the direct, indirect, and consensus primary modes. The harmonized version was received by President Buhari a week later and the rest is now history. Amid growing insecurity and the economy slowly coming out of a recession as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, Nigerians are understandably concerned about the 2023 general election: its feasibility, credibility, and whether their votes will count. The provisions in the new Electoral Act are based on observations of previous elections as well as recommendations by critical stakeholders comprising security agencies, political parties, civil society and domestic and foreign observers. For far too long, Nigerians have witnessed the trend where some politicians continue to take advantage of the erstwhile electoral legal framework, to exploit the process and truncate the will of the people. The new Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2022 is poised to check the shenanigans of unscrupulous politicians and will go a long way towards ensuring credible elections in the future.  The Electoral Act, amongst other benefits, will guarantee the autonomy of the INEC in the management and operations of its affairs, without the undue interference of the government of the day and politicians. Another important provision in the Act gives legislative backing for smart-card readers and any other voter accreditation technology that the Commission deploys. The Act also gives the Commission the legal backing for electronic transmission of election results. These were absent in the previous Electoral framework and proved contentious. The legal backings have made it compulsory under the law for the Commission to deploy these technological advances towards making elections fairer and more credible. Other provisions stipulated within the Act are that the electoral umpire – INEC – can review results declared under duress. Political parties must conduct primaries and submit their list of candidates at least 180 days before the General Elections. Funds for General Elections must be released at least one year before the election. The total number of accredited voters will become a factor in determining over-voting at election tribunals. The Act also makes provisions for people with disabilities and special needs. This ensures that no Nigerian is disenfranchised. It further gives political parties power to conduct a primary election to replace a candidate who died during an election. It allows for early commencement of the campaign season. By this provision, the campaign season will now start 150 days to the Election Day and end 24 hours before the election. Prominent in the Act is the element which stipulates that anyone holding a political office i.e. ministers, commissioners, special advisers and others must relinquish the position before they can be eligible to participate in the electoral process either as a candidate or as a delegate. This will ensure that candidates contest on an equal playing field. These candidates wouldn’t be able to use the paraphernalia of their office to bamboozle their way or intimidate the electorates. While these provisions in the new Electoral Act facilitate better elections in the future, INEC and other relevant agencies must not relent in perfecting the election machinery to a reasonable level. The truth is, without a commitment from stakeholders to do things differently, nothing can completely guarantee free and fair elections. Nigerians shouldn’t rest on their oars and expect the Act to create magic. Yes, amending the law to plug loopholes for irregularities will be a huge step forward but implementation of the provisions within the Act is key towards achieving free and fair elections in the country. No doubt, President Muhammadu Buhari will be bequeathing a lasting legacy having signed the Electoral bill into Law by the time he leaves Office next year. The step was necessary and even commendable, despite the initial delays and hiccups. However the President will be consolidating on this legacy by ensuring a secure and peaceful environment is created for the conduct of the 2023 General Elections, as well as the off-cycle elections in Ekiti and Osun states. Now that we have a new Electoral Act, one can only hope this will herald a regime towards having a freer, fairer, peaceful, and more credible elections and electoral process where the votes of the People will count. It is hoped that with the new Act, the majority will have their way and the minority will have their say. The Act certainly holds a lot of promise for improving the electoral processes in the country with the introduction of new technology and efforts to engender clarity and transparency.