Farooq Kperogi is ashamed of his candidate. He can‘t promote him. He can’t even name him. He’s afraid his candidate would stain his pretentious imaginary personality, which a few have fallen for. Or how do we rationalize that a man who thinks he has the responsibility and clout to „warn the nation of a dangerous religious demagogue“ does not think he has the clout and responsibility to endorse, suggest, advise, or recommend a candidate? What exactly does Mr Kperogi want to achieve besides delivering a hatchet job? Or is Mr. Kperogi saying he is such a sadist that he sees no good in anyone besides his narcissistic self? If Nigerians decide that Osinbajo will rule this country like they decided Buhari would in 2015, there‘s nothing a single isolated individual can do about it. If God has decided Osinbajo will emerge like he emerged as Vice President in 2015, there‘s nothing anyone can do about it either. Truth be told, the APC has no better candidate that appeals to a plurality of Nigerians than Osinbajo, and this scares his biggest co-aspirants. Farooq Kperogi cannot convince Nigerians that Osinbajo is a religious bigot. Not the Osinbajo they have known as Vice President for more than half a dozen years. Not with self-marked syntax and grammar from his professorial credentials. Nor invented adjectives, nor etymological traces, as evidenced in his writings. Farooq is swimming against the tide, and I think he knows it, but this is stomach infrastructure he can‘t resist. Mr Kperogi should know that whoever is responsible for the stomach infrastructure that is giving him a bad belly and causing this vomit cannot erase the goodwill most Nigerians have towards Osinbajo. Nigerians are in tune with Osinbajo. No coordinated group of traducers with any budget size can change the frequency. The mind of Kperogi is akin to that of a sadist; who is ever uncomfortable where there is peace – to satisfy his orgy of bile and constricted venom he brews and instigate crisis. With nowhere to bake his diatribe, he chose Osinbajo forgetting that the man in reference has no stain to his personae. Using the balloon of religion to stain the character of a goodman is not far from punching the air. Kperogi ‚s sadism ends where it starts. It has no lethal effect whatsoever, the people are far more liberated and enlightened to fall to the theatrics of Kperogi whose trade in stock is attacking those he can never be like. An Osinbajo in a mosque in Kano would have the warmly welcome of Muslim faithful than a kperogi in the same mosque. The spent regurgitator of grammar should look for something better to improve his waned fortune instead of promoting a dangerous agenda aimed at tarnishing the sparkling image of Professor Yemi Osinbajo. Kperogi should stop running as no one is pursuing him. A man should not live all his life ingrained in hate, bigotry and mischief. His uninspiring writings are bland, drowsy and infantile, he should learn to outgrow this jejune disposition. like I opined somewhere, In committee of right thinking members of the society, a writer is judged on not how brute his pen has been but on how fair, compassionate and reasonable his pen has been. A writer that sees nothing good in others and always write to condemn where condemnation isn‘t necessary, is not only a pen bully but also a persona using condemnation to deflect necessary scrutiny of the life he leads. If a writer‘s life is good and smooth, his pen would certainly see the goodness of others.   