Buni who returned to Nigeria after a medical trip to Dubai and a stop-over meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in London over the leadership crisis rocking the party arrived in the country in the early hours of yesterday. He held a closed door meeting with Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, who had been holding brief for him, and other members of CECPC at Yobe State Governor’s Lodge. President Buhari had on Wednesday laid the leadership crisis rocking the governing APC to rest when he directed in a letter that Buni should be allowed to complete his assignment as chairman of the party’s caretaker committee (CECPC) by conducting the national convention on March 26. But despite the president’s directive, members of the CECPC continued wearing themselves down, with 10 members of the committee issuing a sack letter containing a vote of no confidence on the national secretary of the party, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe. This was after Akpandoedehe had issued a statement disbanding the convention sub-committees constituted by Governor Sani Bello in his capacity as acting chairman of the CECPC while Buni was away. But in a statement he personally signed, Buni refuted media reports suggesting that he had disbanded the convention subcommittees for the March 26 national convention constituted by Bello. He said all activities carried out in his absence by Bello remain valid and binding. The statement reads: “This is to bring to the notice of all Stakeholders and members of the party that the purported suspension of some activities initiated and executed by the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee under the acting Chairman and Niger State Governor, H.E. Muhammed Sani Bello, IS NOT TRUE. “Therefore, all activities that were done in my absence remain valid and binding. All Party Stakeholders and members are hereby advised to disregard the previous statement discarding the activities of the Committee under the leadership of the Acting Chairman. “It could be recalled that I had duly transmitted power to His Excellency, the Niger State Governor, H.E. Muhammed Sani Bello to enable me undergo medical attention. Therefore, all actions and measures taken by the Committee under his leadership as Acting Chairman, remain effective. “The Party calls for support and understanding to move the Party forward to a successful Convention slated for March 26th, 2022.” Angered by the statement earlier issued by the party’s national secretary, 10 members of the CECPC reaffirmed their position regarding the sack of Akpanudoedehe, maintaining that the final list of Convention planning sub-committees signed by the director of Organisation following the directive of the caretaker committee remains the final and authentic list. Responding to reports on the purported list of sub-committees for the national convention which they said was single handedly signed by Akpanudoedehe, Barr Ismaeel Ahmed, who has been briefing the media since the sack of Senator Akpanudoedehe, insisted that the CECPC never approved the list and in fact has no record of such list. He urged party members and the media to ignore the falsehood being spread Akpanudoedehe, who he said had since been sacked. Ahmed noted that the approved final list was the outcome of extensive consultations with all the stakeholders and follow up at ensuring a decent list that is representative and inclusive is put together. Noting that the list has has since been issued, he said, “The laughable action of sacked Senator Akpanudoedehe is therefore considered an affront on the committee which was duly constituted in line with provisions of the party’s constitution and NEC of the party. In an earlier statement, a vote of no confidence was passed on Senator Akpanudoedeche, relieving him of his duties as secretary of the committee by 10 of the 12 members of the caretaker committee. “Seeing the unpopular actions of Senator Akpanudoedehe it is now obvious that he might be surreptitiously working to derail the party, cause internal friction capable of causing further crisis, but the committee against all his antics is determined to forge ahead and ensure the national convention holds as scheduled and approved devoid of any untoward actions,” the 10 CECPC members stated. The 10 members of the Caretaker Committee who signed the document on Thursday purportedly sacking Akpanudoedehe are Niger State governor, Sani Bello; a former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; Senator Yususf Abubakar Yusuf, Prof Tahir Mamman, David Lyon, Akinremi Olaide, Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed, Dr James Lalu and Stella Okotete. But moving in defence of Akpanudoedehe, some stakeholders of the party yesterday demanded the immediate arrest and sanction of the 10 members of the party’s caretaker committee over the purported sack of the national secretary. The stakeholders under the aegis of APC Concerned Forum (APCCF) warned the 10 CECPC members against flouting the directive of President Buhari who had directed all members of the party to return to the status quo ante in the leadership of the party. In a statement signed by the national convener of the APC group, Comrade Okpokwu Ogenyi, the stakeholder said all members of the caretaker committee were appointed by the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party to oversee the affairs of the party pending its national convention. They argued that the 10 CECPC members lack the constitutional power to sack Akpanudoedehe as the party’s national secretary. The statement noted: “We the Concerned APC Members Forum caution the 10 members of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of our Party against floating President Muhammadu Buhari‘s directive on the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee as well as the March 26th 2022 National Convention of the party. “The members of the committee lack powers to pass Vote of No Confidence on any of its members as such duty is vested on we, the members of the party whom they were appointed on behalf. “It is now clear that after the failed coup to dethrone the Chairman and Secretary of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, the sponsors have come back in the name of Vote of No Confidence just to detract the party and delay the planned March 26th National Convention. “We want members of the Caretaker Committee to know that President Muhammadu Buhari is the national leader of the APC whose integrity has kept the party till date, we shall not tolerate any fragrant disobedience to Mr. President by trying to cause another crisis in the Party. “We therefore call on the Director General of the Department of State Service (DSS) and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to immediately arrest and interrogate the problem makers in the committee who purportedly signed the so call Vote of No Confidence letter which is an abuse of office to enable the party have a crisis free convention”. Also throwing his weight behind the embattled national secretary, deputy national publicity secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena, faulted the purported sack of Akpanudoedehe, insisting that only the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) had such power to remove him. Speaking with journalists at the party’s national secretariat, Nabena said such sacking can not stand anywhere. The APC chieftain said those who signed the said sack letter “have no power to remove the Secretary. “What they need is two-third of NEC – NEC members and not appointed members. The governors are elected, so they are members of NEC, the President is a member of NEC. So, whatever Stella Okotete and co were doing amounts to a nullity because they don’t have the power, they have failed to read their party constitution.” When reminded that Chief Ken Nnamani is a former Senate President, Nabena said, “Ken Nnamani still has the PDP virus in him that is why he is jumping back and forth. That is the problem with Nnamani. And age is also catching up with him. So, I don’t blame him. They promised to give him deputy chairman; that is why he has lost his integrity. “Like I said, the caretaker committee members lack the power. In short, they are seen as borrowed members of NEC in the first place, some of them, except the governors among them, are not authentic members of NEC. So, it is an exercise in futility.” In a related development, a group in the APC under the aegis of Progressive Youth Movement (PYM) declared support for Akpanudoedehe. The group’s national coordinator, Prince Mustapha Audu, said the purported sack of the secretary was a nullity, even as he said the party currently needs unity and not such crisis ahead of the national convention. Audu called on party members to give Governor Mai Mala Buni led CECPC support to deliver a free and fair national convention. “We are here because there has been various media report regarding the purported sack of the secretary of the party, Sen. James John Akpanudohede. We are here to say that the purported sack cannot stand and we are in support of our chairman, His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni. We are in support of the secretary, Senator James John Akpanudohede, and we are in support of Mr President 100%. Anyone bringing any issue at this critical point is clearly an enemy of the APC, is trying to create confusion. “Nine days to the national convention of the party, all hands should be on deck. We saw the letter this morning by our national youth leader, Barr ishma’el Ahmed. We believe we should be working hand in hand to deliver for the party and the convention. There is no need to fight each other at this stage; all we need is to support the party and chairman to carry out the convention. We are ten million members of this support group and we wholeheartedly support Mr President, the caretaker committee chairman and the secretary”, Audu stated. Meanwhile, in a bid to douse tension, chairman of the APC caretaker committee, Buni, yesterday evening met with the acting chairman of the committee, Governor Sani Bello, and other members of the committee. The meeting with the CECPC members, which took place at Yobe State Governors’ Lodge in Asokoro, Abuja, had all members of the caretaker committee in attendance except the national secretary, Akpanudoedehe, who was conspicuously absent. It was also gathered that the Yobe governor also met with chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, who briefed him on the outcome of the forum’s meeting on Wednesday night. Speaking with journalists at the end of the meeting, Governor Buni applauded the CECPC members on the level of preparations towards the national convention. He said, “You know that since I travelled, the Party has not stopped. His Excellency (Governor of Niger State, H.E. Abubakar Sani Bello) has done very well in managing the affairs of the Party. We are here to discuss the issues going forward. We are now at the finishing line in the preparations for our National Convention which is at hand on March 26. We are putting heads together to achieve this task ahead. I want to emphasise that the March 26 National Convention is sacrosanct.” On why Akpanudoedehe was absent at the meeting, Buni clarified that the visit was not a formal meeting of the CECPC. He said, “You know that this is not a formal meeting of the committee. These members of the CECPC just came to welcome me back to the country and wish me well after returning from a medical trip outside the country.” On his part, Governor Sani Bello, “For the past one week, I have been acting as the Chairman of the CECPC and what I can tell you is that we made lots of progress towards our National Convention like we saw in the inauguration of the State Chairmen, adoption of some of the zoning formula, and some of the decisions of the CECPC taken before he (Governor Buni) left the country. I can tell you for free that in the last one week, we have ensured that we are good to go for the National Convention.” A source within the payty told LEADERSHIP last night that Buni had convened the meeting to ensure that the feud among the caretaker committee members is resolved. The source who did not want his name in print said, “Buni’s camp has won the leadership tussle but wants to be mature in handling things by now carrying everyone along. You know he (Bello) inaugurated state chairmen, which Buni was supposed to do before he travelled. “If you say everything done in the absence of the substantive chairman has been thrown away, that, too, will be thrown away. So it is a way of dousing tension and not giving room for further media to feast on a probable crisis in the ruling party.” On the fate of Akpanudoedohe, the source added: “He is on ground, no one has removed him.”  