As part of the build-up to the 2023 general election intensifies, the national publicity secretary of the New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP), Ambassador Agbo Major, has said that the party has 15 presidential aspirants and several others for governorship, senatorial, House of Representatives and State House of Assembly seats. Major said the party would hold its zonal congresses on March 28, while the National Convention holds on March 30 in Abuja. Addressing journalists yesterday in Abuja, Major said NNPP is on a rescue mission to redirect the ship of the nation from its perilous course. He said the party has started harvesting notable politicians and political groups such as The National Movement (TNM), Kwankwasiyya Political Movement, Market Women Groups in Osun and Gombe states, youth groups, defectors from other political parties among others. He said the NNPP is democratic in its internal operations and urged aspirants to take advantage of this generally acclaimed democratic disposition to freely contest for its tickets and assured them of level playing field. “As a grassroots political party, aspirants are also enjoined to carry out issue-based campaigns and eschew politics of bitterness and brigandage that impeded the nation’s democratic development. “The Party’s Zonal Congresses are scheduled to hold on 28th March 2022, across the Federation. The climax of this giant strides in repositioning the Party is the National Convention which will hold in Abuja on 30th March to elect substantive national officers of the party,” Major said. He said after over 22 years of constitutional rule, Nigerians’ desire and deserve a strong, virile, united, progressive, prosperous and equitable democratic society, adding that the previous governments failed to make the Nigerian dream possible. He noted that fellow compatriots are today more impoverished than they were in 1999 as the dividends of democracy remain a mirage. “As a mass movement, a third leg in the nation’s political tripod and a leading opposition party in the country, the New Nigeria People’s Party has become the beautiful bride of Nigerian democracy. The ongoing alignment and realignment of political forces are eloquent testimony of the Party’s determination to win future elections in the country and salvage our dear nation from the jaws of political buccaneers masquerading as democrats with the sole intention to loot our common patrimony,” he added. He revealed that in recent times, the party has been welcoming numerous Nigerians with shared ideology, progressivism, mission and vision. Prominent among them are members of The National Movement (TNM), Kwankwasiyya Political Movement, Market Women Groups in Osun and Gombe States, Youth Groups, defectors from other political parties and the masses who desire a new Nigeria which only the New Nigeria People’s Party government can usher in. He said, “To accommodate the high influx of new members into our great Party, its national leadership recently dissolved all organs and executives at all levels in accordance with the Constitution of NNPP 2018 as amended. “The party has successfully conducted ward, local government and state congresses across the country. However, state congresses in Rivers, Imo, Plateau and FCT were suspended due to minor disagreements. “The Caretaker Committee has invited leaders of the affected states to the national secretariat of our great party for amicable resolution of the issues raised. Thereafter, the congresses in these states will be conducted.” Major maintained that every vote must be counted and count in the overall result and the people’s mandates must be respected by all candidates and stakeholders in the political process. 