The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has suspended action on the court judgment sacking Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi, his deputy, Eric Igwe and 16 members of the state House of Assembly over their defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC). INEC said its decision was sequel to conflicting judgments and orders served on it from courts of coordinate jurisdiction. A Federal High Court in Abuja presided over by Justice Inyang Ekwo had in a suit declared vacant the seats of Umahi, his deputy and those of the lawmakers who defected with them. The court order followed two suits brought against them by the PDP. The judge also ordered INEC to issue a fresh Certificate of Return to PDP’s nominees for the vacant executive positions without delay. Following the judgment, PDP nominated candidates to take over from Umahi and his deputy. However, INEC national commissioner and chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, in a statement yesterday, said the commission had deliberated on the matter extensively and decided to suspend further action on the matter due to conflicting judgments and orders served on it from courts of coordinate jurisdiction.  Okoye said the commission also considered it prudent to stay action on the conflicting judgments and orders being aware of the pendency of appeals and motions for stay of execution of some of the judgments before various divisions of the Court of Appeal.  Meanwhile, the commission has rejected the nominations of three political parties: Action Alliance (AA); African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) from participating in the Osun governorship election.  Okoye said the commission based its decision on the failure of the parties to comply with the guidelines on political party operations (2018) as well as the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended).  He said the commission would only publish the list and personal particulars of the candidates of 15 out of the 18 political parties that conducted primaries.