A religious organisation, the Omega Power Ministries (OPM), said it has enrolled 37 children living with autism and down syndrome to study at its free Special Needs School in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. OPM general overseer, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere, made disclosure in Port Harcourt, the State capital while speaking at an event to mark the 2022 World Down Syndrome Day. Chinyere stated that the church had in January 2021, established a free school for children born with autism and down syndrome, to enable them to get educated and fit into the society. He said: “We decided to open this free school, knowing that rich people whose children have special needs take them to special schools while the poor cannot afford to do so. “The children are created by God, and as such, it is wrong to discriminate against them and deny them education and inclusion just because of the way they were born. “If given the enabling environment like other kids, children living with autism and down syndrome can do and achieve great things.” The cleric stated that OPM had deliberately built the special school beside another of its free school, to enable the physically impaired children to integrate with normal kids. Chinyere described as wrong, the perception by society that children living with autism and down syndrome are possessed by demons or are inferior. He said: “To change this perception, we decided to bring the two free schools together, to enable the children to play together, but with different teachers. “We believe that by doing so, the (normal) children will become familiar with autistic and down children, and as such, not discriminate against them even in their adulthood.” The cleric added that the church has so far opened 18 free schools, two free hospitals as well as run free restaurants and accommodations for repentant prostitutes and destitute across the country. He said OPM also awarded scholarships to more than 2,000 students to study in different countries in Europe, North America and South Africa. Reacting to the development, Rivers State Commissioner for Education, Professor Kanye Ebeku, said the state government was happy with Apostle Chinyere’s philanthropic works. Ebeku stated that the state government would continue to partner with OPM and willing organisations to drive development in the State.