In a bid to restore some sanity in the party after the 2019 elections, President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered the sack of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It is instructive to note that the president has often been accused of being aloof to party affairs and acts as if he was elected as an independent candidate. However, that has not been the case as the president has acted in some crucial times to save the party from imminent implosion. It would be recalled that the ruling party lost Zamfara, Adamawa and Bauchi in the 2019 election due to infighting in the party. The APC had no candidate in Rivers State and also lost the Edo gubernatorial election. To arrest the drift, President Buhari ordered for the sack of the NWC and appointed a caretaker committee headed by Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni. The mandate of the caretaker committee was to organise a national convention in six months but it seems the committee had other ideas. Six months stretched to two years and there seemed to be no sign that the party was ready to organise a national convention. The drama generated by that led to agitations which climaxed last month. When news filtered in that some elements in the party were planning on postponing the convention again, progressive governors’ forum i.e governors elected on the platform of APC held marathon meetings. The next day they meet with President Buhari at the Presidential Villa. Briefing correspondents on the outcome of the meeting, Governor Nasir el-Rufai, of Kaduna State, affirmed that agreement had been reached on the zoning formula. He said: “We have agreed on a zoning formula for all the six geo-political zones. Essentially, the northern zone will have the positions the south has had in the last eight years. And vice versa. “It is a very simple, equitable, and fair formula. “We will now go back and consult at the zonal level and look at the available positions and the process of the convention preparation we started in earnest. “So, by the grace of God, on the 26th of March, we would have done our national convention.” The Kaduna governor also affirmed that the APC governors were divided over the timing of the national convention as some believed that there were many issues left unresolved. Speaking earlier, the chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum and governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, revealed that President Buhari is in favour of consensus to select candidates for party offices. However, after then reports filtered in that some caretaker committees are working to extend the convention again. While this was going on, like a scene out of a badly written Nollywood script, Niger State governor, Sani Bello stormed the APC headquarters and said he is the acting chairman of the party and even performed some duties of the chairman. El- Rufai also went on air and said 19 governors have endorsed the removal of Buni as caretaker chairman. Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu went as far as calling some of his colleagues Yahoo Yahoo governors for attempting to stop the national convention. The letter from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recognising only the leadership of Buni as party chairman threw spanners in the party’s works and the March 26 date was in jeopardy. The party, falling like a pack of cards, was hanging on a precipice. Political analysts called on President Buhari to take charge and save the party from implosion. The thinking was that only the president can restore sanity to the party. The president who was in London for a two weeks medical checkup issued a statement warning the leaders (and membership) of the party to desist from name-calling and backstabbing ahead of the oncoming March 26 Convention, remain steadfast, and maintain its unity if the party is to continue in the path of victory and its dominance at all levels throughout the country. President Buhari asked the members to look at the once-powerful, ‘’main opposition’’ Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) now enfeebled and adrift, and learn lessons in disunity, mismanagement, and corruption. ‘’They failed in 16 years in power and a failure as opposition. ‘’Yes, we are entitled to our share of dissent and intra-party discord. These are common in all parties, left and right all over the world. ‘’But parties splintered by competing egos destine themselves to the worst possible fate,’’ the President warned. He continued ‘’As the country prepares for the long run-up to the 2023 presidential election, we all expect a robust debate on the issues that matter and what is going on in the APC should be a reflection of this, not the infighting we are seeing. There must be no more distractions ahead of the convention to choose new leaders.’’ He recalled that the APC started with a confidence of victory and the party today enjoys that confidence in nearly two-thirds of our 36 states. Yet, he noted, this is a party that has been in existence barely for eight years, becoming the dominant party because it has thrown open its doors to defectors from other parties, big and small. The president reflected on the gains made by the party within what he called a “short period of existence,” adding it has won two general elections decisively and despite losing a few states in 2019, it steadfastly expanded its pan-Nigerian outlook with significant defections of the opposition Governors and parliamentarians into its fold.” He added that with such achievements, it was expected that contests into offices would be heated. But he noted that the quality of conversations could have been better. He said “It is equally clear that over the last week or so, the internal management affairs of the APC have been afforded generous media coverage – over and above its importance to the voters of Nigeria. “It is important to ask what benefits the poor are getting during the period of intense negative coverage. “When precisely the party’s convention is held and who is the party’s chairman is hardly a matter for the average voter: vastly more important is who convention delegates will elect as the party’s flagbearer in the coming weeks to take forward the party’s platform to the people in the general election in February next year.” The president, who was not impressed that the debate within the party was not about policy differences, noted that, none of the party’s aspirants and any of those that may step forward will change because of who may be in the party in the chairman’s seat. “Of course, the media are welcome to comment on the content of the character of the potential APC candidates; discuss their suitability for leadership; scrutinise their offer to the membership. But to focus on the routine internal divisions and magnify them into what they have become today is a waste of everyone’s time, amounting to no more than a discussion over seating arrangements. “This is not what Nigerians talk of in their communities. They have an inclination only for things that matter.” Indeed, the warning by the president seems to have calmed some frayed nerves in the party who have decided to sheath their swords and allow the convention to go on as planned on March 26. Buni however is back on the saddle even as those who campaigned for his removal await his next line of action. And now that the veil has been shredded and the camps have become public, it will be interesting to see how the Villa manages the clash of interests, which seem fixated on exclusive victory at the primaries.