Members of the Abia State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) have persistently maintained that they are not in factions. But, this is even as they are polarised. There are those whose loyalty is to the secretary of the Contact and Strategy Committee of the party, High Chief Ikechi Emenike. The others are loyal to the immediate chairman of the chapter, Hon Donatus Nwankpa. There has been a relentless struggle between the camps for control of the chapter. The culmination of the struggle occured at a special state congress in the state capital, Umuahia on January 8. The exercise saw the emergence of Hon (Dr) Kingsley Ononogbu, a former banker and an Emenike loyalist as the new chairman. The exercise was necessitated by the demise of the former chairman, Mazi Enyi Harbor, who was elected during the state congress last October. In his acceptance speech, Ononogbu expressed appreciation to the delegates and the entire members of the party for finding him capable for the office especially with the 2023 general election less than 13 months away. The new chairman, who had served as chief inspector of a second generation bank, appealed for the support of the members and residents of the state to change the narrative “the time for the needed change in the state has begun.” Paying tributes to Harbor, he described him as a very honest, committed and sincere leader, adding that the members owe him a duty to strive to achieve the goal of winning the election to set a new agenda for the state. Announcing the result, the Special Congress Committee chairman, Hon Kolawole Babatunde said, Ononogbu, who was the sole candidate polled 1,067 votes out of 1,075 cast. According to the former federal lawmaker from Ondo State, there were 1,085 delegates to the congress out of which 1,080 were accredited with eight void votes recorded. Speaking to newsmen after the announcement, he said the exercise was directed by the leadership of the party under the chairmanship of Governor Mai Mala Bunu of Yobe State. LEADERSHIP reports that Ononogbu was among the 34 new state party chairmen inaugurated by the former caretaker chairman, Governor Mai Bala Buni in Abuja, about three weeks ago. On his arrival from Abuja, he inaugurated both the state and the 17 local government areas executive committees of the party at the No 40 Uyo Street secretariat in the capital on Tuesday in Umuahia, the capital. Addressing newsmen shortly after the exercise which was attended by a huge number of members from every nook and cranny of the state, he said its mission is to liberate, rescue and reposition the state for growth and development. While inaugurating the committees, the chairman argued that with the inauguration, all lingering crises in the chapter following the congresses had ended, saying he had extended his hand of fellowship to both the losers and aggrieved members. He said the issue at stake in the state had gone beyond who is leading any interest groups or who gets nominated for any position for the election, but how to achieve the mission for the good of the people. It would be recalled that while the first state congress also headed by Babatunde was on duty, a former deputy speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Uzor Azubuike was conducting a parallel congress elsewhere. At the end of the exercise, Azubuike, who was a member of the House Representatives for Aba federal constituency from 2007-2011 declared another former member of the Green Chamber, Hon Acho Obioma as the winner. The former commissioner for Agriculture in the state, said Obioma polled 298 votes against Sylvanus Nwaji, Dike Nwankwo, Chidi Nwosu, and Lawrence Ukaegbu who scored 1, 4, 92 134 respectively. In his acceptance speech, Obioma, who ran for Abia Central Senatorial seat in 2015 on the platform of the party, lauded the delegates for voting him. He promised not to let them down. His words: “I have worked tirelessly for the party to gain relevance and also to become the party to reckon with in Abia state. I have given my best in the past, and this time, I will do much more. I will never be found wanting.” Surprisingly, less than 48 hours after Ononogbu was inaugurated, the Nwankpa loyalists inaugurated their own state working committee headed by Obioma. Handing over the post to Obioma, Nwankpa restated their position that the chapter is not factionalised. He assured that the era of the former federal lawmaker would mark a new direction for the chapter In his acceptance speech, the former representative of Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency from 1999-2003 commended the delegates for counting him worthy for the post. Obioma, who maintained that he would handle the post to the best of his ability, sued for a regular meeting of the members at both ward and local government levels to sustain and strengthen its growth. According to him “Abia APC has discovered that residents want a change of the government in the state. We are determined to bring that change to them come 2023 with the cooperation of each of us.” One of the latest twists in the tussle occurred in January when Kalu’s media office issued a statement saying the representative of Abia North Senatorial district doesn’t belong to any group, faction or subdivision of the chapter. The statement noted that Kalu had also denied working with PDP to sabotage the APC’s chances of winning the 2023 general election. The office was reacting to a news report by one of the national dailies captioned: “Kalu, Emenike Absent at APC Reconciliation Meeting” which was organised by the National Reconciliation Committee chaired by Senator Abdullahi Adamu. On Saturday March 6, Kalu was quoted by an online news report as having sued for peace among the members for the overall development and progress of the party. The former governor was said to be responding to plans by some key leaders of the chapter to dump the party for others following the emergence of Ononogbu. The report added that the Senate chief whip and former governor of the state encouraged those who believe in the party and the President to remain faithful and to support its growth. It is noteworthy that after the congresses which the Emenike loyalists swept, the national headquarters of the party has insisted on the sanctity of their outcome. It has never listed the state among those in crisis. Every effort brought by Nwankpa’s loyalists, even through the judiciary to stop the winners from being recognised by Abuja failed. The latest was their bid to stop Ononogbu from being sworn in. With the conduct of the party’s national convention last weekend, one would assume that the end of the struggle has come at last even as there are still some pockets of resistance here and there. As the representative of Bende federal constituency in the House of Representatives Hon Ben Kalu was quoted as saying during the convention, the time to end the struggle has come. Going by some of the unfolding events in the ruling PDP about which zone should produce Governor Okezie Ikpeazu’s successor in 2023, many thought APC should be set to benefit from any crisis as a consequence of the event. For the past one month, aspirants have been emerging from the three Senatorial districts of the state with strong arguments why the party’s ticket for the seat should be zoned to them. The situation was so complicated that former governor and Senator representing Abia Central Senatorial district, Senator Theodore Orji as well as the party’s 2015 governorship candidate, Chief Onyema Ugochukwu, have shown concern over the development. However, for the APC, pundits say unless the camps sheath their swords, mend fences, and embrace each other, the party might not win the state in 2023. 