Chairman, board of director of Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) Mrs Ronke Sokefun has challenged women in general, including female staff of the corporation to always improve their worth by constantly equipping themselves with modern skills; and be in tune with current realities. Mrs Sokefun said there is every need to deliberately create the atmosphere for women to thrive and realise their dreams. “Without gender equality, a sustainable future remains beyond our reach,” the board chairman said at an event to celebrate this year’s edition of international women’s day with the theme: Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Future. “The corporation will continue to ensure that the female folks are achieve to achieve their vision.” Managing director of NDIC, Bello Hassan said  the theme for this year’s international women’s recognises the contributions of women and girls all over the world who are leading on climate change adaptation, mitigation and response to build a more sustainable future for everyone. Mr Hassan said need to continue to examine the opportunities, as well as the constraints, to empower women and girls to have a voice and be equal players in decision-making related to climate change and sustainability is essential for sustainable development and greater gender equality. “Without gender equality today, a sustainable future, and an equal future, remains beyond our reach,” Bello who was represented,” the CEO who was represented by NDIC’s executive director, corporate services, Mrs Emily Osuji said. He said the corporation will continue to make deliberate efforts to ensure that female employees are encouraged to reach the zenith of their careers in the Corporation. Sokefun said women need to engage more with their spouses to overcome issues that hold them back. “If the man is doing it alone, it tilts to one side. But when his wife is comfortable she is doing a lot, she’s also supporting him. She said the number of women staff in NDIC is still under 40 per cent which she said is encouraging. For organisations that have not been able to achieve such mark, she challenged them to tap into the reservoir of knowledge in women. She urged such organisations to simply look inward and find ways to include more women in leadership roles. Osuji said despite the high number of women in NDIC, much still has to be done to increase the numbers. She said while women rae not asking for 60 per cent leadership role, she said “we just want equity.” Human resource director at NDIC, Edwin Esangbedo said it won’t be possible to achieve the goal of breaking the barrier of ‘no poverty’ without accelerating gender equality. “We should involve more women in drafting policies and programmes of government. Women empowerment should be an everyday thing.” The guest speaker at the event, managing director of First City Monument Bank (FCMB) said everyday is supposed to be international women’s day. She congratulated NDIC for giving women much recognition, noting that 40 percent of NDIC’s staff are women? She raised the concern that Nigeria has not really moved the ladder up on women parity. “We need more actions to actually make the breaking of the bias a reality.” “Achieving gender equality in Nigeria requires conscious effort to break the bias. We must be purposeful in sharing our time for studies. We need to seek knowledge. We need to socialise/network with both male and female genders. I detest people putting women down,” she stated.