The United Nations General Assembly announced March 21 as WDSD in December 2011. Annually, the organisation establishes a theme. This year’s theme is: ‘Inclusion Means.’ According to the UN, ‘the estimated incidence of Down Syndrome is between one in 1,000 to one in 1,100 live births worldwide. Annually, it is reported that about 3,000 to 5,000 children are born with this disorder. The UN states that WDSD is a unique opportunity for the world Down Syndrome community to connect annually to do the following: share ideas, experiences and knowledge; empower each other to advocate for equal rights for people with Down Syndrome and to reach out to key stakeholders to bring about positive change. It has been said that no one knows why the condition occurs. Down Syndrome exists in all regions around the world and is known to affect learning styles, physical features and general health. Down Syndrome is described as a condition in which a person has an extra chromosome. Chromosomes are responsible for determining how a baby’s body forms and how it works as it grows during pregnancy and after birth. To be precise, usually, a baby is born with 46 chromosomes; however, babies who have Down Syndrome have an extra copy of one of these chromosomes called chromosome 21. ‘A medical term for having an extra copy of a chromosome is ‘trisomy.’ Down syndrome is also referred to as Trisomy 21. This extra chromosome changes how the baby’s body and brain develop, which can cause both mental and physical challenges for the baby. According to the National Association for Down Syndrome (NADS) website, Nads.org, the condition occurs in one of every 792 live births and is usually identified at birth or shortly after birth. Initial diagnosis is based on physical features usually noticed in babies with Down Syndrome such as: low muscle tone, a single crease across the palm of the hand, a slightly flattened facial profile and an upward slant to the eyes. The syndrome is confirmed in a chromosome study, referred to as karyotype, which offers a visual display of the chromosomes grouped by their size, number and shape.  Chromosomes may be studied by examining blood or tissue cells. Children and adults with Down Syndrome experience developmental delays, but many of them also have lots of talents and gifts and should be given the opportunity and encouragement to develop them. As Nigeria joins the rest of the world in marking this day, the health authorities need to raise more awareness about how parents and families should handle and support those among them with the condition. Presently the accurate number of people affected by the condition is unknown, as there is no adequate documentation on the condition in Nigeria. While there are some organisations that are supporting the cause to support people living with Down Syndrome, the governments at the federal and state levels should do more generally to assist these organisations and also people living with or affected in one way or the other by the condition. People with Down Syndrome in the country are mostly stigmatised by others. Therefore, creating awareness about this condition in communities to prevent further stigmatisation in Nigeria is the way to go. There should be more support services designed specifically for people living with this condition to help them live a better life so as to integrate seamlessly into the society, as well as assist those who are involved directly or indirectly in taking care of the children with this condition as it can sometimes be overwhelming. As the world remembers those with this condition, society can do a few things to lighten their burden. For school age victims of this condition, classrooms and other education facilities and infrastructure should be modified to accommodate affected persons. They should also be exposed to special learning experiences that encourage them to reach their full potential and imbue them with confidence. Also, families coping with this condition should be offered institutional support in order to ensure that sufferers are not denied their special needs.   