The chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, Dr. Kingsley Ononogbu, has expressed confidence that the new leadership of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the party’s national chairman will stabilise and reposition the ruling party. Ononogbu stated this while addressing journalists in Umuahia on the just-concluded APC national convention, which held in Abuja. He said: “On behalf of the entire APC family in the state and myself, I heartily congratulate His Excellency, Senator Adamu, who just emerged as our national chairman and pledge our unalloyed support and loyalty to him. “The Senator’s candidature and his unanimous acceptance by the delegates was a clear testimony of his popularity due to his charismatic leadership qualities, integrity, wealth of experience and democratic tendencies. ” Speaking further, he maintained that, “With his tested and proven wealth of experience as a former governor, Senator, and a progressive, he will ensure the party remains on top of its game. I have no doubt about this at all.” Ononogbu, who also expressed satisfaction with the maturity exhibited by both the aspirants and delegates to the convention, assured the new national chairman that the members would work with him to stabilise and move the party forward. In the same manner, he congratulated the governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzordinma, for galvanising the South-East geopolitical zone and the role he played to ensure the success of the convention. “For us in Abia, it is now time for us to take the words of President Buhari to heart, when he enjoined us to promote internal democracy and equal opportunities to all to ensure the 2023 primaries are not influenced by highest bidders. “That way,” the chairman argued, “we will be able to produce competent candidates with commitment to root out the cankerworms that have eaten deep into the fabrics of our state unchallenged since the return of democracy in Nigeria in 1999.” According to him, the party has been through a lot of challenges, which the members have always come out of, adding that, “Nevertheless, we have continued to grow and move forward. And with this novel leadership, the APC is ready for 2023.”