The party expressed dismay over what it described as a clear volte-face by Goje on the reconciliation between him and Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya spearheaded by the party’s national leadership. It described as appalling that Goje would come out to accuse the state governor of jettisoning the reconciliation arrangement, saying the Gombe Central senator was only looking for an accused to dump the APC. In a statement signed by party’s publicity secretary, Ambassador Moses Kyari, he noted the recent arranged moves by some top leaders of the opposition PDP, who are trying hard to woo Goje into their fold with the senator’s consent. Kyari said, “It is all an arrangement by Goje himself to find a lame excuse to leave the APC.  This has been his style, for those that know his political trajectory. The APC national leadership should take note of this.” He said Goje’s game is to always portray himself as too important and relevant in the affairs of the party without recourse to other leaders of the party in the state. The party noted the efforts of the APC national reconciliation committee headed by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, which met with both Governor Yahaya and Senator Goje separately before the expanded meeting with the chairman of APC national Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni, in attendance. The party also lamented a recent message by one of Goje’s aides, Adamu Muhammad Manga, that the reconciliation done was only in line with Islamic injunction but that the political reconciliation was not yet arrived at was most unfortunate. The APC said it believed Manga, who is a personal assistant (PA) to Goje, was instructed by his principal to go to town with the announcement, following a move by some good citizens of Gombe to organize an event to celebrate the reconciliation brokered by the APC national leadership. Manga, in an audio message, called on Goje’s supporters to disregard the planned event and asked them to await the senator’s camp on the political reconciliation. The party challenged Goje to come out and debunk the announcement made by Manga, who distanced his principal from that event, an indication that the APC reconciliation efforts amounted to a waste of time and therefore undermining and sabotaging the leadership of the party.  