The February 2022 economic data has indicated some improvements in business conditions in Nigeria’s private sector with output, new orders and buying activity rising. Stanbic IBTC Bank Nigeria PMI report released noted that the headline Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), improved to 57.3 in February 53.7 in January, pointing to a robust overall improvement in business conditions. Moreover, the latest figure signaled the strongest expansion since November 2019. PMI readings above 50.0 signal an improvement in business conditions on the previous month, while readings below 50.0 show deterioration. The report stated that “February PMI data for Nigeria’s private sector pointed to a substantial improvement in business conditions. Quicker expansions in output, new orders, employment and purchasing underpinned the latest improvement. At the same time, firms were hopeful that higher investments and customer numbers would support output growth over the course of the coming year.” It added that, “on the cost front, unfavourable exchange rate movements, higher prices for raw materials and rising wages led to a substantial rate of input price inflation. Subsequently, selling charges were lifted sharply.” According to the report, a key driver of growth was the joint-quickest rise in new orders for over two years. Firms mentioned a general improvement in demand from both domestic and international markets. It noted that favourable demand conditions underpinned optimism in February, saying firms that foresee a rise in output expect business expansions, higher client numbers and greater investment over the coming 12 months. Head of Equity Research West Africa at Stanbic IBTC Bank, Muyiwa Oni said, “In February, the Stanbic IBTC Bank PMI reached a two-year high of 57.3, up from 53.7 in January. The rise was attributed to a combination of a significant increase in new orders and, consequently, output levels. “The positive momentum was broad based as the report suggests increased employment levels. This also implies a response to the increased demand levels.” He noted that Nigeria’s economy expanded by 3.98 per cent year-on-year in Q4, 2021, relative to 4.01 per cent Y-o-Y in Q3, 2021, cumulating in a 3.4 per cent Y-o-Y growth for 2021, saying that “This marks a recovery from the pandemic-induced contraction of 1.9 per cent Y-o-Y in 2020. The recovery in 2021 was supported by a robust non-oil sector growth. Public health restrictions were relaxed, thereby improving transportation and demand for goods and recreational services. “Despite the positive GDP print, the PMI report is also indicative of mounting inflationary pressures as the purchase cost index rose to 77.0 from 72.4 in January 2022. This corroborates our expectations of a sticky inflation outlook for 2022 as price pressures persist. Essentially, we expect headline inflation to average c.15 per cent in 2022.” 