Telecommunication giant, Huawei Technologies Company Limited has reiterated its commitment to the continuous support and collaboration with stakeholders in the Nigeria Energy industry. This is as partners of the company commended the company for its impact on the Nigerian oil and gas industry and their businesses on the heels of the just concluded fifth Nigerian International Energy Summit, NIES 2022 in Abuja. Huawei IP product Manager, Mr Chinedu Emekekukwu maintained that the company will continue to provide cutting-edge technology to aid the development of Nigeria’s energy sector. “We will continue to revolutionize the industry with cutting-edge technology innovations that promote safety, Productivity, value and nature,” he said. One of its partners, executive director, Emecom Technology and Consulting Limited, Mr Ayodele Afenifero said in a media chat during the energy summit, said said the firm’s technology solutions were not just the best for his organization but also for other organisations in the oil and gas sector. Huawei had received an award for Best Technology provider in the Offshore Oil and Gas category during the event. “Huawei has been a wonderful opportunity for my organization based on the nature of their technology, product and solution portfolio that it has which speak directly to my customer needs from different industrial verticals; the online gas, FSI, public sector and also manufacturing, “You can see that in the area of oil and gas – which is the reason we all came for this event – quite a number of customers have been going to the Huawei stand just to see what Huawei is offering to the industry. have been looking at the pipeline monitoring solution, the pipeline intrusion solution, and also the E and P storage infrastructure; talking about the storage Edorado, and many other storage applications,” Ayodele said. Also speaking, managing director/CEO, Monac Global Investment Limited, revealed that she has been a partner with Huawei for more than 10 years, stressing how her relationship over the years with the company has remained the best. “Huawei remains the best in having to get such strong durable technology, solutions and devices to meet the needs of your customers especially in the oil and gas sectors like NNPC, PPMC, and others. Huawei has always been there to support the partners. So there is this strong customer, partner’s relationship. This OEM, partners, and customer relationship is like a trinity. It’s a bond that has been solidified by the constant support of Huawei. It’s been amazing being partners of Huawei and we look forward to a more successful relationship,” she noted. “Also looking at the Huawei cloud where many oil and gas company in Nigeria today are on the journey to be part of what cloud offering is, many of these organizations have been talking about how they would want to have their own storage in their environment, but with the new technology that many organizations is looking into presently today is for every organization that want to scale up to have an hybrid environment, and when you have a hybrid environment which Huawei offers, you have the leverage to get support directly from the OEM and also get to update your firm well at no cost to you. And when you compare Huawei’s solution to the other OEM, Huawei actually speaks to the needs of the organization. And today, everybody that comes to the program knows the importance of Huawei to the oil and gas sector.