Ahead of the 2023 general election, a group under the aegis of “Save Tomorrow 4 Osinbajo,” has urged the vice president, Prof Yemi Osinbajo to declare for the presidency.  This is even as the group called on the new leadership of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) to give the vice president the right of first refusal in considering aspirants for the presidential ticket. In a statement yesterday by the group’s national publicity secretary, Comrade Molokwu Emmanuel, said Osinbajo’s presidency will sustain the landmark achievements recorded by the Buhari led All Progressive Congress APC administration. The Save Tomorrow 4 Osinbajo’s group noted that their principal has the right credentials and capacity to address the many challenges being faced by the country, adding that the few times Osinbajo acted in the absence of President Muhammadu Buhari he discharged his duties creditably . The group also disclosed that it has put machinery in place to mobilise Nigerians across the 774 local government to galvanize support for their prefered candidate, adding that if given the opportunity, he will deliver quality leadership. The statements reads in parts “The entire leadership of Save Tomorrow 4 Osinbajo calls on the All Progressives Congress APC and it’s new leadership to please give His Excellency Professor Yemi Osinbajo the right of first refusal to the number one sit of the nation, because we believe in his competence and ability to carry on with the good work been laid down by His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR. “The Vice President has done so much in the area of economy and other responsibilities given to his office by Mr. President, we use this medium to call on the Nigerian people at large to support Save Tomorrow 4 Osinbajo project 2023 to achieve a greater and better Nigeria for our generations unborn and the present generation as well. “We believe that when given this opportunity to lead Nigerians, Professor Yemi Osinbajo will surely deliver quality leadership to the electorates. Our organisation is going round the 774 local government areas of Nigeria to promote togetherness and drum support for our principal Professor Yemi Osinbajo 4 President come 2023. “We also congratulate president Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressive Congress APC on its just concluded national convention,” the group said.