Ahead of Saturday’s national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), one of the front runners for the party’s foremost position, Senator Abdullahi Adamu is facing fresh hurdles from within the ruling party. The opposition to Adamu’s leadership of the APC is being championed by stakeholders under the umbrella of the defunct legacy parties which formed the APC. While the legacy parties which fused into the APC in 2013 are the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). A chieftain of the defunct CPC in Kano State, Alhaji Farouk Abdulaziz, told journalists yesterday that the group was against the aspiration of the former Nasarawa State governor. Abdulaziz described Adamu as an alien to the ideals of the APC. He said, “We have made our position known to President Muhammadu Buhari and he promised not to support anyone for the position. As it stands, Adamu Abdullahi cannot claim he has full presidential backing. “We have nothing against gum but we need someone who was part of the formation of pir party from the beginning.  The party has ideals and only those who share those ideals must lead our party. “It is now going to be an open contest; that is the beauty of democracy and Mr President insists that all the aspirants cleared for that position must face the delegates,” he said. Another party chieftain who claimed to be close to the presidency, but does not want his name in print, said Buhari is no longer backing any aspirant for APC national chairmanship position. He said, “Some people who feel they are close to Mr President sold the candidature of Senator Abdullahi Adamu to him. Somehow, others who have Mr President’s ears have also told him the implication of using Adamu as APC national chairman. “So, Mr President, having listened to both parties now, said he is no longer interested in any consensus again. Let there be an open contest where the best person will emerge as the national chairman,” he said.