The Monetary Policy Committee(MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is expected to meet this month to deliberate on the policy direction, a decision members of the committee say is increasingly becoming difficult to make. At the last MPC held in January, the committee had resolved to keep all parameters unchanged leaving the Monetary Policy Rate at 11.5 per cent. The last time the rate changed was in September 2020 when the rate was cut form 12.5 per cent and the last time the MPC agreed to raise raised was in July 2016 when it was raised form 12 per cent to 14 per cent. With inflation at 15.6 per cent and the expected steps to be taken by the United States Federal Reserve Bank (FED), members of the committee are considering taking a hawkish stance in their decisions this year. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) had recently urged emerging economies to prepare for possible disturbance of financial markets and a tightening of financial conditions globally. These developments, according to the Fund, could come with a slowing of US demand and trade and may lead to capital outflows and currency depreciation in emerging markets. To strengthen policy frameworks and reduce vulnerabilities, the IMF recommended that emerging economies raise benchmark interest rates and allow their currencies to depreciate. According to the CBN deputy governor, Corporate Services, Adamu Lamtek, the option of tightening policy using the policy rate remains on the table as long as inflationary pressures persist hoping that the policy headroom for supporting growth will not narrow any further by the time the committee meets this month. Inflation which had seen a steady decline for eight months last year, dropping from 18.17 per cent in March 2021 to 15.4 per cent in November last year had risen to 15.63 in December before easing to 15.6 per cent in January this year. Increased inflationary pressures have resulted from the combination of huge fiscal and monetary injections, high energy prices and disruptions in the supply chains of intermediate goods. Thus Lamtek said “monetary policy must now aim to strike a balance between stimulating output and reining-in inflation. Against this background, we can extrapolate that monetary policy making is likely going to be quite challenging in 2022, especially for developing countries that are mostly posting fragile and sluggish output recoveries due to factors including poor access to vaccines and a variety of structural constraints on economic activity including weak policy support. “Most fundamentally, the inflationary pressures the economy has experienced in the last two to three years have been driven mainly by non-monetary factors. Distribution bottlenecks and supply shortages have been its major undercurrent “The Bank’s response so far has partly focused on alleviating major supply constraints using development finance interventions in the real sector of the economy. This approach has had the desired effect of lifting output and dampening consumer price pressures, especially in the foods sub-sector. I am persuaded that this strategy continues to be important in addressing much of the current price pressures. “While not discounting the risks presented by the drift towards policy normalization in the advanced economies, volatile energy prices and rising global inflation, I am minded that the timing of any adjustment in policy could be heavily consequential. “Although most central banks are wary of these risks to inflation, only a few have responded with a hike in policy rate. I believe that a cautious approach to monetary policy is ideal at this time in view of the cloudy growth outlook. I should emphasize that the routine sterilisation actions of the Bank continue to be sufficient to rein-in banking system excess liquidity. “Obviously, policy support has been very instrumental to macroeconomic recovery in 2021. More will be needed from the fiscal side in 2022 especially in sectors like agriculture, SMEs and solid minerals. In addition, physical infrastructure and security ought to maintain their priority position on the fiscal plate in year.” Another member of the committee, Adenikinju Festus also expressed concerns on the inflationary pressure in the country which he said would be compounded by the upcoming elections. “The elevated level of inflation, amid rising budget deficit, insecurity, pressure on exchange rate and poor state of infrastructure are important challenges. This is compounded by the fact that 2022 is a pre-election year in Nigeria,” he pointed out.