The chairman of NERC, Mr. Sanusi Garba, confirmed  this to journalists in Lagos . The Calabar Thermal Power Station is a 562.5MW gas fired power project.  Though currently active, the project was plunged into inaction following gas supply constraints. Garba said concerted efforts are ongoing to return all redundant plants back on track. He also confirmed that five power plants across the south west constrained by gas supply would be adding another 600MW. On Alaoji, he said, efforts were being made to return it to full activities. He said, presently, the 504 megawatts Alaoji Power Plant in Imo state has been shut down following an attack on the gas pipeline of TotalEnergies EP Nigeria Limited. LEADERSHIP reports that the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) Limited disclosed that it has been forced to shutdown after TotalEnergies declared a Force Majeure as a result of the vandalism of NOPL Line at KP41 on January 7, 2022. TotalEnergies had in a letter to the NDPHC stated:  “NOPL pipeline was vandalized on 7th January 2022 at KP41 Alaoma Etche Cluster. The Line Block Valve at KP38 was closed to isolate the sabotage point and depressurization of the line, this will affect gas supply to Alaoji (Power Plant) until further notice”. As a result of this development, TotalEnergies EP Nigeria Limited stated that, “Gas supply to Alaoji Power Plant was suspended due to this unfortunate event. Preliminary investigation to determine the extent of the damage is ongoing, and repair works shall commence as soon as feasible.” NERC also said government has begun to receive bids from local meter manufacturers to supply meters under phase one of the National Meter Metering Projects which targets installation of four million meters under the phase. Garba said, eight million metering gap curently exists in the industry but said no time frame to close the gap as there still will be need for new meters and replacement programmes. It was also learnt at the meeting with the media that the sector had spent over N1 trillion to boost the grid network. It was also revealed that the Distribution Companies would be spending about N100 billion to boost performance. Industry data shows that in 2018 the national grid collapsed 12 times, nine times in 2019, and two in 2002, four collapses recorded and two in 2021 and two already recorded this year. Garba, said the commission would continue to review tariff in line with its policy. It was learnt that as at today 3,500MW has been injected into the grid.