Coalition of All Progressives Congress (APC) Support Groups (CAPCSG) has applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for wading into the leadership crisis that almost ruined the chance of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), of conducting its national convention billed for tomorrow. According to it, President Buhari played a pivotal leadership role in restoring peace and clear direction to ensure that the party conducts a peaceful and successful National Convention. Secretary general of the Coalition, Shedrack Ogolekwu, who stated this during a press briefing in Abuja, implored members of the APC and supporters to remain committed to the party’s ideology to enable the leadership of the party achieve its mandate to the party. Reassuring APC stakeholders of a successful convention that would ensure the governing party is voted back to power in the 2023 general election, the coalition said no stone must be left unturned in bringing succour to Nigerians through its leadership. Ogolekwu said, “We thank President Muhammadu Buhari for his fatherly love, concern and care as demonstrated through his quick and timely intervention in resolving the crises that rocked the party a few days ago, and the role he played has brought in calm and permanent peace which ultimately led to the rescue of our party from imminent collapse. “We call on all the members and supporters of our party to remain calm and continue to be committed to the party’s mandate. “All hope to consolidate on the massive gains of the party which includes anti- corruption war, infrastructural development, social security and interventions, human capital Development, agricultural revolution, quality leadership, liberalisation of the economy, gender, disability and youths community in governance. “We therefore admonish you to keep faith with the party to deliver on his core mandate of developing the nation’s economy.” On his part, organising secretary of the coalition, Dattijo Miya, enjoined all members of the party “to continue to maintain peace, stressing that united they stand but divided they fall.” Women leader of the coalition, Mrs Maryam Danjaki, called on the “leadership of the party and other members to embrace peace to enable a successful National Convention.” The group called on Nigerians to continue to support President Buhari’s led administration. 