After keeping members and aspirants in suspense throughout the weekend, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has finally announced that the screening of its aspirants will commence today. LEADERSHIP had reported yesterday that while aspirants to various offices of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) ahead of the national convention billed for the 2nd of this month thronging the party secretariat to be screened, the party was yet to officially fix a date for the exercise. It was also reported that the inability of the geopolitical zones to agree on the aspirants to settle for in the micro-zoning process, late submission of forms by aspirants and poor preparation were the reasons why the APC convention screening committee chaired by Kastina State governor, Aminu Bello Masari, is yet to kick start the screening process, which is one of the procedures required for the convention to hold. The paper had also reported that the screening exercise which was scheduled to be conducted in two batches will now commence today. A statement signed by secretary of the screening committee, Barr Emmanuel Chukwuemeka Otagburuagu, noted that the chairman of the party’s national convention screening sub-committee, Governor Masari, has invited aspirants for the exercise billed to hold in two batches between today and Wednesday. The screening process involves each aspirant appearing before the screening panel to present their credentials and any other document required from them, even as background checks are being conducted their antecedents. The statement noted that the aspirants will be screened in two batches at the Katsina State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro-Abuja. “His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Aminu Bello Masari, CFR the Chairman and Rt. Hon. Dimeji Bankole, CFR, the Co-Chairman of the APC 2022 National Convention Screening Committee, hereby invites all the Aspirants to the Screening Exercise,” Otagburuagu stated. According to him, the screening of national chairmanship aspirants and other NWC positions will take place today at a time to be communicated to the aspirants, Wednesday, screening of aspirants into the zonal offices will be held tomorrow from 10am. About six candidates have procured and submitted their nomination and expression of interest forms for the national chairmanship position. They are  Senstors Tanko Al-Makura;  Special Duties minister, Senator George Akume; Senator Abdullahi Adamu former Zamfara State Governor, Abdulaziz Yari; Senator Sani Musa; former Congress for Progressive Change deputy national chairman, Malam Saliu Mustapha; former Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari and the youngest among them, Muhammad Saidu Etsu.  APC Governors Have Resolved Their Differences – Sule Meanwhile, chairman of the media committee of the APC convention and Nasarawa State governor, Abdullahi Sule, hinted yesterday the governors on the party’s platform have resolved their differences and have put all the wrangling over the botched leadership change in the party behind them. Sule who spoke during the formal inauguration of the media committee and its various subcommittees said, “The leadership of the party under Governor Mai Mala Buni and the members of the caretaker committee are making every effort to take everyone along and I believe it is the only path for a successful Convention and victory at elections. We believe in unity in diversity, and this is the mantra of our Convention.” Governor Sule noted that all was now well with the party, even as the plans for the convention billed for next Saturday are fully on course. The media committee has broken “into sub-committees that have speedily moved on their various assignments aimed at delivering a successful Convention six days from today,” a statement by secretary of the media committee, Garba Shehu, stated.  .