It was an electrifying moment for the people of Akwa-Ibom state, particularly the youth movement in the state who turned out to support their comrade, Luke Onofiok who declared his bid to lead the state as governor come 2023. Onofiok whose strength is with the youthful population during the declaration which coincided with his 44th birthday anniversary emphasised that he would be a governor that represents all interest groups if elected to office. Although the incumbent governor, Udom Emmanuel had anointed a member of his cabinet, Pastor Umo Eno to succeed him. While some critical stakeholders aligned with the governor’s positions, others defer, thereby putting the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state at crossroads. The Senator representing Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, Akwa Ibom North West and former deputy governor of Akwa Ibom state, Christopher Ekpenyong, has announced that God has also revealed to him that Senator Bassey Akpan will be the governor of the state. Ekpenyong who recently received Senator Akpan as part of his consultation dismissed Governor Emmanuel’s vision, saying instead Akpan, has been revealed to him by God, as the next Akwa Ibom governor. While addressing a crowd of supporters, who accompanied Akpan to the private consultative visit, Ekpenyong said: “I don’t know what others are saying and what they heard. All I know is that God has told me that Obong Bassey Albert Akpan, is the best governorship aspirant for Akwa Ibom at this time. OBA has the experience, he has the connection. With him, we can go to bed and sleep”. Ekpenyong, also said “nobody can intimidate me to accept what is not good for the people”, insisted that the people want a governor who knows their peculiar problems and has the wide contacts to deploy for their solutions saying that within the period they have worked together in the red chamber, “you have been a pride to Akwa Ibom and Nigeria. “Since your heart is very clear, I know that you will change the circumstances of these men and women. As a former banker, you know that these people need welfare and banking investments. What they need is development. If you go to Ini, you can change the environment into a rice belt so we can also have a rice pyramid. From Obot Akara to Etim Ekpo to Ika, we have the best palm oil.” However, despite the discordant tunes by the PDP stakeholders in the state, Onofiok and his supporters have vowed to carry on with their campaigns unperturbed and with a clear message of hope to the people, devoid of any campaign of calumny. To this end, Onofiok and his team introduced a new narrative into the state’s polity and the message of inclusiveness seems to be spreading like wildfire. Like some other governorship hopefuls, Onofiok parades a robust manifesto that crisscrossed every stratum of human endeavour and he even went ahead to chronologically itemise practical steps to achieve the set goals. However, the concluding slogan of “building together, growing together” might have persuaded the large followership as witnessed in the carnival-like declaration. “Today I unveil my social contract with you title building together growing together. I want to assure you that I am fully prepared for the task of serving you and building the Akwa Ibom of our dreams, and I intend to hit the ground running when given the opportunity.” The Onofiok story ignited passion for the emotional crowd who might have connected one way or the other to the humble background of the young politician. Obviously, the ambition of the governorship hopeful who described himself as a local boy with international exposure cut the semblance of a homegrown project. “When at 13, you lose your hero to the cold pangs of death, your walls come crumbling and you choose to either, stand or fall, walk or crawl, limp or soar. This is my story and for me, I chose to stand, walk and soar. Then your mother with the help of God defies all the odds to provide you with all you need to grow and make it in life. This is my story and for me, I choose to stand, walk and soar. “Today, I am still standing, with an aspiration. For this and many more, I return all the Glory to the Almighty God. When I chose to stand after that unfortunate incident, it was so I could be there for my four siblings and my mother. I knew this would make my late father proud but as time went by, I realised that My father would have wanted much more; more people finding a voice; more people having a representative, more young persons born in the seemingly obscure places given platforms to compete globally with anyone in their age grade, many more families being able to afford the necessities, more people living in good-health to their old ages due to effective and affordable health-care, many more small businesses becoming big, many more barrier-breaking technological advances and innovations. “This realisation of a call for greater duty stirred my passion for Public Service and this started right in my university days when in 2002, I rode on the popular will of the people-student to emerge as President of the Students’ union of the University of Uyo, I could only understand the yearnings and aspirations of the people. I developed the strength of character, goodwill, outspokenness and the power of conviction. The foundation for my involvement in the Management of public lives of people was laid first from school.” Onofioks local boy story did not only move the mammoth crowded at the declaration but also attempted to prick the conscience of the political class in the state to an accomplished youth with great exposure and experience in governance the chance to form a bridge between the present and the future. “I identify as a local boy with the understanding of the challenges of our people, with a world view of development issues; having been born, suckled and breed in your neighbourhood and having also gained international experience as a scholar and as a representative of my country at various levels. “I represent the bridge between the past, the present and future, I represent the young and the old, the analogue and the digital generation, the rich and the poor, the haves and the have-nots. This gives me a unique perspective on issues that cut across the various strata of our society.” While it is still unclear how Governor Emmanuel will eventually manage the ambition of staunch PDP stalwarts aspiring to rule the state, the state government has assured that the imbroglio would be well managed such that it would not degenerate into fragmentation within the party. Commissioner for information in the state, Comrade Ini Ememobong while reacting to the development said all the aspirants are loyal to the PDP and would not work against the party, irrespective of who eventually gets the ticket. “Truth is that there are many interests. All the gentlemen contesting love the PDP and won’t leave. All of them got to where they’re through the PDP. I doubt any of them will work against the PDP. Many of them want to be governor, but they know that there can only be one person that will emerge. The rest will team up and support the candidate. Politics is war without guns. We will sort ourselves out. APC is not a threat here,” he said. Ememobong further assured that Governor Emmanuel would at the right time intervene and put the controversy to an end. “The governor will at some point step in and settle the issue. Those contesting are all brothers and they’ll meet and do what’s best for the state in the end. I can assure you,” the commissioner stated.