The Fourth Industrial Revolution(4IR) has been identified as crucial to the survival of Nigeria and other African countries which if utilized maximally will help to bridge the technology gap between Africa and the developed countries. The African Socio Cultural Development Foundation in collaboration with the Federal Capital Territory Secondary Education Board made this known as efforts are being intensified to increase the knowledge of young Nigerians and Africans about the 4IR. This development emerged during an event to showcase ‘4IR Education Africa’ organised Abuja recently where students from four government secondary schools displayed their knowledge on the 4IR. The event was in line with the Foundations’ mission which is “To Keep implementing innovative socio-cultural and socio economic initiatives/interventions to transform African socio cultural values towards achieving a highly socio economically developed Africa. Our interventions, programs, projects and indeed all our activities are designed to make Africans cherish and adopt thinking and behavior that will lead to socio – economic development.” In line with its vision the foundation said “Very many Africans are poor, most of Africa is underdeveloped, but Africa the continent is rich! Africa is rich in arable land, mineral resources, water, youth and human resources to mention a few. Transforming Africa from the underdeveloped of today to the developed continent of tomorrow entails transforming what Africans think and do with, for and about their resources. Transforming Africa’s Culture that is the sum total of the learned behavior of Africans towards socio-economic development will achieve our vision of all Africans living in a highly socio-economically developed Africa.” The CEO of the Foundation, Dr. Christopher Anthony Chibo told reporters at the event that there is an urgent need to bridge the technology gap between the developed countries and developing countries, which is dangerously widening. He said, “It is a very dangerous gap because new technologies are being made for production and Africa is not taking advantage of the knowledge and technology. Africa is being left behind when it comes to this. Now, the world is in the Fourth Industrial Revolution and most countries in Africa seem not to know what is happening. “That is why we are here to find a way to breach the gap and to give our children the knowledge of the technology they need. African children are some of the brightest in the world and what we are doing now is grooming them in their own nation with the knowledge they need to take Africa forward. “We are raising funds and targeting the students because they have a new focus in life and they have new decisions to make. We are going to give the best of them the scholarship to go and acquire what they need to know so that they can come back and apply knowledge in Nigeria.” He said their target is every student in public schools and as of now, they have started with 280 schools using SS3 students in four schools in Abuja for the pilot phase. He added that the foundation is giving the children technology knowledge and that is being done free of charge. While speaking, the Secretary for Education FCT, Sani Dahir Elkatuzu, said he believes the first revolution brought serious problems in Africa while 4IR provides a level playing ground as it does not depend on the level of development but talents. In his reaction, Assistant Director of Bilateral Relations, FCT Secondary Education Board, Yakubu Ibrahim, said with smart technology becoming more mainstream, there is a need to consider the impact 4IR will have on society and the workforce. “If we need to be relevant and marketable, then we require human capacity in 4IR, so it becomes necessary for all and sundry to adopt it,” he said. Speaking on the choice of secondary schools for 4IR knowledge, Ibrahim said with the number of young and upcoming generation, there is dire need to formulate policies that could harness the potentials of the energetic population for national development.