Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Muhammad Nami, has said the revenue mobilization of Nigeria and Niger Republic could be improved if the revenue authorities of both countries work together to deepen their relationship, share tax information and engage in mutual administrative assistance. Mr Nami stated this while receiving his Niger Republic counterpart, the director-general of Niger Tax Authority, Mallam Ousmane Mahamane and his delegation on a visit to his office, FIRS said in a statement.  Nami said it was important for the FIRS to work with the Niger tax authority given the “presence of high-net-worth Nigerian individuals and companies trading in Niger with significant tax implications, which is of great interest to the FIRS.” The FIRS chairman also highlighted the working relationship enjoyed by the Service and the Niger Tax Authority in the past particularly on the community rule on double taxation and transfer pricing. He stated that there was the need for further cooperation in the areas of sharing of tax information and mutual administrative assistance, especially in the face of increase in trans-border tax within the context of ECOWAS and AFCFTA. Nami used the occasion to share with his Niger Republic counterpart some of the success stories achieved by the FIRS and the contributors responsible for these milestones. “We have focused on non-oil tax collection and indirect taxes, particularly VAT as well as on the deployment of technology for the automation of FIRS’ processes and procedures for effective tax administration and greater revenue yield, including e-stamping, e-registration, e-filing, e-payment, e-receipt, e-Tax Clearance Certificates, automation of Stamp Duty and VAT, the deployment of VATrac—an automated VAT filing and collection system in the wholesale and retail sectors—and the deployment of a home-grown, integrated tax administration system, the TaxPro Max. “One of the contributing factors to our improved revenue is the taxation of the digital economy through the implementation of relevant policies, legislations and administrative processes for the collection of taxes (both income taxes and VAT) from the digital economy,” he stated. Mallam Ousmane Mahamane, the director-general of the Niger tax authority, in his remarks stated that there was the urgent need for international tax cooperation between the two institutions. Mahamane said the visit was to seek a relationship with the FIRS that would cover cross border trade, the oil sector, the telecommunications sector the digitalization of tax procedures, exchange of tax information, assistance with tax audit, separation of administrative procedures, modernization of tax administration and human capacity development. He commended the FIRS chairman for his “outstanding performance” in mobilising over N6.405 trillion in revenue for the government of Nigeria.