Ahead of next month’s Tissot UCI Track Nations Cup slated for the famous Sir Chris Hoy Velodrome in Glasgow, Scotland, Team Nigeria’s track cycling has intensified preparation to excel at the elite-level international track cycling championship. Narrating Nigerian cyclists’ preparation so far ahead of the global showpiece to LEADERSHIP Sports, technical director of the Cycling Federation of Nigeria (CFN), Muhammed Bashir, said the six female athletes camping at the Velodrome of Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja,  are in high spirits. He said the coaches, with the help of an Italian expatriate, are working hard to help the athletes improve on their technicality and speed on the track. He said Nigeria’s female cycling team presently ranked fifth in the world by the UCI is aiming to garner points at the Glasgow event and other future international championships to qualify for the UCI World Championship and Paris 2024 Olympics. “We started track cycling in 2019 and presently we are ranked 5th by the UCI in the world. “For you to qualify for world championship and Olympics you have to take part in Nations cup and for a cyclist to be eligible to participate in the Nations cup he or she must score at least 250 points from UCI events. “Presently, we have about six female cyclists in camp that we select between four or five of them to represent the country at the Nations cup coming up in Glasgow, Scotland. Then we have championships in Australia, Colombia and another one has already taken place, but the team will take part in two Nations Cup so that they can accumulate points that will qualify them for the world championship and next Olympics in Paris,” Bashir said. According to him, Team Nigeria will compete in five events at Glasgow Nations Cup “Presently we have about six of them that have qualified to take part in the Nations cup. We have them in WE TT, WE Keirin, Omnium, individual pursuit and team pursuit. Among them is only one person that has not taken part in a world championship in the past but we are working on her to perfect her skill on the track. We have an Italian Expatriate sent to us by the Italian Cycling Federation to assist our coaches.” The event in Glasgow will be the first elite-level international track cycling event to be held at the Sir Chris Hoy Velodrome since December 2019 and will bring together the very best international riders.