This is the second edition of the progrmme, which is aimed at improving the standard of education in Nigeria especially Seplat Energy’s host states and communities. Over the years, Seplat Energy had made significant impacts with critical initiatives focused on providing quality education for states of its operations and the country. To consolidate its achievements on Sustainability Development Goal 4 for inclusive and equitable quality education, the Company introduced STEP, a customised training programme for secondary school teachers. STEP is a three-month intensive training programme that equips teachers with tools to teach STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics). The Company introduced the STEAM model of learning to secondary schools in Delta and Edo States in order to promote creative thinking, allow for higher student engagement, and offer a well-rounded education. Where STEAM are equal contributors to the process of learning. In September 2021, the 220 certificate awardees from Delta and Edo States began their training with an initial five-day residential retreat. After that, they continued training via the E-Learning platform developed for the programme. To commemorate the certificate presentation ceremony on March 17, 2022, Seplat Energy hosted The Seplat JV Education Roundtable themed: ‘Harnessing the Role of Technology In Nigeria’s Education Sector’. Prof. Fabian Ajogwu, an independent non-executive director at Seplat Energy, said, “Education is a collective responsibility. What Seplat Energy is doing is noble and commendable. It is supported by both Edo and Delta state governments. These states should be model states that should be emulated. Other corporates should also be invited to do the same. Spending on education gives us future returns than subsiding consumption.” According to the Edo state deputy governor, Philip Shaibu, education via technology will promote children to be global competitors, and this can only happen through adequate knowledge of technology. I congratulate Seplat Energy on this initiative and Edo State will continue to partner with the company on education.” In her remarks, the Edo state commissioner for Education, Dr. Joan Oviawe, said the State is thrilled to partner with Seplat Energy on education, adding that, “We are excited by what Seplat Energy is doing for teachers and thank the company for its CSR impact in the educational sector another sectors.”The objectives of STEP are to: train secondary school teachers on skills, innovations, and technologies for deploying STEAM to deliver tutelage better to the students; provide and connect teachers to a collection of STEAM resources to enable them to understand, apply and innovate; and provide schools with resources to enable them to provide the right environment for STEAM implementation to enable students engage in the interdisciplinary nature of STEAM.