The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has expressed shock and sorrow over the death of FIFA/CAF Medical Officer, Dr Joseph Kabungo, saying that his death was not caused by the post-match violence aftermath of the second leg of the Nigeria-Ghana 2022 World Cup play-off on Tuesday night. Kabungo had died on Tuesday after the FIFA World Cup playoff match between Nigeria and Ghana at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. Dr Kabungo was appointed as Doping Control Officer for the match. “We are terribly shocked at this sad development. The NFF commiserates with world football body FIFA, the Confederation of African Football, the Football Association of Zambia and the family of Dr Kabungo on his sudden passing. His death pains us very much and we are in a state of deep shock. “However, it is important to state the facts as they are. According to the information from our own medical officer, Dr Onimisi Ozi Salami, who was appointed by FIFA as Medical Officer for the game, Dr Kabungo was found gasping for breath near the dressing room of the Ghanaian team. I was notified and ordered that he should be rushed to the hospital. He didn’t make it. He died just as they got to the hospital,” NFF General Secretary, Dr Mohammed Sanusi, stated in a press statement. The statement added that the incident of his death happened while he (Dr Kabungo) and his colleague, Dr Ozi Salami, were looking for players for the doping exercise. “I was heading to the dressing room of the Nigerian team when the General Coordinator, Kabore Hubert Bosilong from South Africa called my attention. Dr Kabungo suddenly started gasping for breath. The FIFA Security Officer for the match, Mr Dixon Adol Okello, from Uganda also witnessed the incident. “We tried to resuscitate him there and then, but when this did not appear to be working, we put him in an ambulance and rushed him to Cedar Crest Hospital in Apo, where he gave up the ghost. It is a very sad incident and one is shocked that some persons have been putting a terrible slant to the whole thing by saying he was beaten up by fans. That is a lie. He died as a result of sudden cardiac arrest,” NFF statement quoted Dr Ozi Salami. He added that the officials of the NFF, the medical team and officials of the High Commission of Zambia held a meeting on Wednesday morning to decide on the next line of action following the demise of Dr Kabungo.