Sterling Bank Plc has carried out environmental cleaning exercises in 23 states across Nigeria, as part of its commitment to create a cleaner and safer environment for the citizenry and aquatic life under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative known as Sterling Bank Environmental Makeover (STEM). The cleaning up exercises involved cleaning of markets, roads and beaches to commemorate the World Recycling Day, which held recently in every country in the world. The exercises were simultaneously held in Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Kwara, Ondo, Ekiti, Kano, Jigawa, Kaduna, Abuja, Delta, Anambra, Edo, Abia, Imo, Rivers, Bayelsa, Akwa-Ibom, Gombe, Bauchi, Plateau, Katsina and Lagos. More than 1,000 participated in the clean-up exercises; including staff of Sterling Bank and volunteers. In Lagos, it was executed in partnership with the Oniru Kingdom, Rite Foods, First Exploration and Petroleum Development Company, Bonnie Bio, Sterling One Foundation, Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), African Clean Up Initiative and Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA). Speaking in Lagos, managing director and CEO of Sterling Bank, Mr. Abubakar Suleiman, said the bank embarked on cleaning exercises in 21 states out of the 24 states it is partnering with across the country. The CEO, who was represented by executive director of Commercial and Institutional Banking at Sterling Bank, Mr. Tunde Adeola, said: “we have been on this journey for more than 10 years. Every time, this happens, we have a cleaner and healthier environment.” Also speaking, general manager, Corporate and Investment Banking with Sterling Bank, Mrs. Mojisola Bakare said: “it is very important that we take responsibility for our actions on the environment and preserve its beauty to boost the local economy and attract foreign tourists, and by extension, foreign exchange into the country.” Commissioner for ministry of Tourism in Lagos state, Mrs. Uzamat Yussuf, stressed the need for the citizenry to clean the beaches in a bid to encourage tourists to come and see what the state can offer, adding that, the purpose of tourism is to create wealth; which ultimately, will increase the GDP of the country. She implored all to continue to manage and dispose wastes properly in a bid to sustain the environment. Abia State commissioner of Transport, Mr. Godswill Uwanoruo, commended the management and staff of Sterling Bank for the cleaning exercise which started in the state since 2015. The commissioner of Environment in Bayelsa State, Mr. Iselema Gbaranbiri, noted that, “the state government is here with Sterling Bank to show the world that they are synergising and keeping Bayelsa clean.”