LG Electronics has revealed its Signature OLED R rollable TV which seamlessly rolls out from its base to reveal a luxury TV for an immersive viewing experience. The company also assured that it would continue to offer for Nigerians Electronics that integrate technology and art elements to create a new experience that would make life more pleasurable. In a statement by the company, it reveals that its SIGNATURE OLED R is a work of art fit for customers’ luxury lifestyle, with a TV that appears when it’s needed and disappears when they don’t need. ‘‘The LG SIGNATURE OLED R rollable TV, seamlessly rolls out from its base to reveal a luxury TV for an immersive viewing experience. Once rolled back down, the LG SIGNATURE OLED R transforms into a state-of-the-art Dolby Atmos sound system,’’ the statement read in part. According to the general manager, Home Entertainment, TV Division, LG Electronics, West Africa Operations, Mr. Choong Bae Seok, a truly unique design and unprecedented functionality make the LG SIGNATURE OLED R a sight to behold. ‘‘Whichever way you use it. Watch your favorite content in Full View mode, discreetly set the mood in Line View, or make the most of your space in Zero View. “Users of the LG Signature OLED R may manage other home equipment remotely via line view, which allows the television to be partially unrolled, by selecting features and settings such as clock, frame, mood, music, and home dashboard. The OLED display vanishes completely in zero view, allowing users to enjoy music and other audio material through the 4.2-channel, 100w front-firing Dolby Atmos audio system. The R in the name indicates that the TV is not only rollable, but also revolutionary in the home entertainment arena, revolutionizing the interaction between a TV that can be hidden from view at the push of a button and the surrounding environment.
He also said that the LG Signature OLED R is a work of art that will appeal to people who demand the best and understand the true value of game-changing innovation. He said, “This TV is not only an incredible feat of engineering and user-centric design, but it is also a work of art that will upgrade any space and compliment any lifestyle. From the brushed aluminium casing to the stylish and modern wool speaker cover by Kvadrat of Denmark, LG Signature OLED R was specially designed.’’