Energy and infrastructure conglomerate, Sahara Group, has announced several directorate appointments to support the continuing strategic expansion of its businesses across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. The head, Group HR, Sahara Group, Ivie Imasogie-Adigun, said the appointments reinforce Sahara’s commitment to equipping its ‘agile and ambidextrous’ employees to grow into various leadership positions as arrowheads of Sahara’s existing and unfolding businesses across markets. Imasogie-Adigun said, the appointments, which took effect on March 1, 2022, will give impetus to Sahara’s operations across the Power, Upstream, Midstream, Downstream and Infrastructure sectors. “As we evolve as an innovative global business, we continue to enjoy the leverage of an exceptional human capital pool that makes Sahara a foremost energy conglomerate and sustainable business. We have always had the privilege of having Saharians who have served in various capacities step into leadership positions with attendant success stories all over the world,” she said. According to Imasogie-Adigun, in a bid to strengthen the new direction of the Sahara Foundation – Sahara’s corporate responsibility vehicle – Sahara’s board has approved the appointment of Pearl Uzokwe as director, Sahara Foundation. Uzokwe who joined Sahara as legal manager, most recently functioned as its pioneer director of Governance and Sustainability, where she championed Sahara Group’s energy transition efforts. Sahara Foundation  which has recorded over two million beneficiaries through several sustainable projects  now focuses on enhancing access to energy and promoting sustainable environments. Sahara’s board appointed Ejiro Gray as director, Governance and Sustainability. Gray, who previously led the Group’s Company Secretariat, joined Sahara as a Graduate Management Trainee in 2007 and has driven various projects and strategies in the Legal and Corporate Governance departments. She said the board also appointed Foluso Sobanjo, currently managing director of Asharami Synergy – Sahara Group’s Nigeria Downstream business, as Head, Africa Downstream. Sobajo will steer Sahara’s Downstream business across the African continent with current operations in Nigeria, Ghana, Cote D’Ivoire, Senegal, Guinea, Cameroun, Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania