An interest group in the All Progressives Congress (APC) known as APC Muslim Integrity Forum (APCMIF) has rejected the endorsement of former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as the next national chairman of the party. Speaking at a press conference in Abuja on Tuesday, the forum’s national coordinator, Hon Abubakar Yusuf, urged President Buhari and other party leaders to critically examine the person of Adamu and his past activities, his integrity and commitment, age and physical fitness. Specifically, the forum noted that Adamu’s role as the arrow head of former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s third agenda should be taken into consideration by President Buhari and governors who are said to have endorsed Adamu ahead of the APC national convention. It warned that APC as a party whose ideology is based on anti-corruption, integrity and good governance cannot afford to present Adamu as the party’s national chairman of because it will be used against the party during electioneering campaign. “They will laugh at us and rubbish the integrity of our party”, Yusuf stated.. The forum said, “We appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to critically examine the person of Abdullahi Adamu and his past activities, his integrity and commitment, age and physical fitness and his role as the arrow head of former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s third agenda. does not believe in democratic principle can not be a good party administrator especially a crisis ridden Party like ours in an election year. “We call on President Muhammadu Buhari and all leaders of our party to withdraw the purported endorsement of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, considering his badly damaged records, his age and the requirements of the office of the National Chairman with the view of replacing him if at all such alleged endorsement exists.” The group argued that Adamu is not the only Muslim chairmanship aspirant from the North-central, calling on the party leaders to other aspirants like Sen. Umar Tanko Al-Makura, Sen. Sani Musa, Saliu Mustapha among others. “The fact is, Abdullahi Adamu is not the only Muslim from North Central Nigeria, we have people like Sen. Umar Tanko Al-Makura, Sen. Sani Musa, Saliu Mustapha among others that can do the job. “The age of Sen. Adamu should also be considered, Adamu lack the physical energy and charisma to move round the country and seat for long hours as it is required of a National Chairman of a governing party in a country like Nigeria”, it added.