The Nigerian capital market opened a new vista of opportunities for the development of Nigerian sports ecosystem with the launch of the N5bn Nigeria Football Fund (TNFF) by GTI Group. TNFF is a collective investment scheme or mutual fund that combines the regular advantages of a mutual fund with unique propositions of a structured fund. TNFF, promoted by GTI Group and being managed by GTI Asset Management & Trust Limited, is raising N5 billion through an initial public offering (IPO) of 5billion units at a par value of N1 per unit. Minimum subscription to the fund is 100,000 or N100,000 and thereafter in multiples of N100,000. Application list for the offer opened on March 22, 2022. The TNFF is registered as an open-ended fund by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Speaking at the  launch of the fund in Lagos, former deputy governor of Lagos State, Otunba Femi Pedro, said the TNFF has come to fill the missing link in the development of Nigerian sports. According to him, the TNFF provides a unique vehicle to mobilise private sector funding for sports development, thus enabling the sector to contribute significantly to national economic development. He noted that, with its population and passion for football and other sports, efficient and consistent funding has been the major gap undermining the potential of the Nigerian sports ecosystem. He added that the TNFF aligns with the national agenda of turning sports into a financially rewarding industry that is attractive to investors. Vice president, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Mr. Seyi Akinwunmi, said TNFF will herald a lot of greatness in the Nigerian sports industry with several multiplier effects on the economy, security and youth employment. According to him, TNFF will change the narrative in Nigerian sports through major investments, creative initiatives and maintenance of higher standards. Group managing director, GTI Group, Mr. Abubakar Lawal, said TNFF will serve as an enabler for sustainable funding of football and other sports, with a target of growing sports’ contribution to national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to 0.5 per cent within the next five years. According to him, the fund intends to replicate in Nigeria, a similar football economy of developed countries where football and other sports would command private sector patronage in form of sponsorship, strong followership, state-of-the-art infrastructure, employment generation, revenue generation for government, listing of football clubs in the capital market, increased benefits for football and sports value chains among others. Chairman, house of Representatives Committee on Sports, Olumide Osoba, commended GTI for its innovativeness noting that TNFF‘s investment proposal supports government’s efforts at diversifying the economy. He assured that the National Assembly will continue to support private sector initiatives aimed at fostering national growth and development.