A frontline coalition of 37 groups, Arewa Organisations Movement for Asiwaju, has said Chief Bola Tinubu remains the most qualified candidate to emerge as the President of Nigeria in 2023. Coordinator of the group Senator Abu Ibrahim disclosed this I’m statement after a visit to Katsina State Government House. The team was received by governor Aminu Bello Masari, he said. Ibrahim said the team appealed to the leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to ensure that Tinubu emerges as its presidential flag bearer. Describing the former Lagos State Governor as a great transformer that leaves landmarks of socio-economic development in every sector he has served, Ibrahim said Tinubu laid solid foundations for sustainable socio-economic development in Lagos State. He noted that Tinubu has always been a friend and trusted ally of the north and Katsina State, and has always regarded Katsina as home. Addressing the members of the movement, Masari described Tinubu as a patriot and a nationalist and wished the group well in its campaign activities. He also advised Tinubu campaign organisations, movements, and groups to harmonise their activities under one umbrella for a more effective outcome. At a separate visit to the Palace of the Emir of Katsina, Alhaji AbdulMumini Kabir Usman, Ibrahim said Tinubu will end the security crises bedeviling the northern part of the country.  In his remarks, the Emir recalled that when his late father, the immediate past Emir, Alhaji Muhammad Kabir Usman marked his tenth anniversary on the throne, Tinubu was the only governor who took out time to grace the occasion amid calls by some powerful persons who asked governors to boycott the ceremony.  The Emir said he still feels indebted to Tinubu for that gesture.  He said, “That singular gesture proved to me that Tinubu is indeed a friend of Katsina State, the Emirate will always remain grateful for his show of solidarity.  “It meant a lot to my father then, and it still means a lot to me. I still feel heavily indebted to this great statesman for always extending his hands of friendship to me and the Emirate.”  The Emir said Sen Ibrahim has been his channel of communication with the Emirate, adding that he has indeed chosen a trustworthy person as an ally.  “My relationship with Tinubu is as old as my relationship with Sen Ibrahim. He is trustworthy. He is the kind of person that will always look you in the face and tell you the truth. I always knew him to be like this and I am sure he has not changed.  “This campaign organisation is certainly doing a great job and I wish you well. What we need at this point is genuine efforts to solve the problems that face us collectively as a nation, as a people, and as compatriots with a common destiny. The present administration is doing its best, and we thank Tinubu for being a strong pillar of the Muhammadu Buhari-led government.  “We will continue to pray for you and our nation, we will certainly overcome the challenges we face today; what we need are leaders that will put Nigeria first, and this team is working to ensure this noble objective,” the Emir said.  At the family house of late Alhaji Musa Yaradua where they paid homage to the family matriarch, Hajiya Dada, she expressed profound appreciation to the movement and wished the organisations well in their campaign tour around the country. 