The minister of mining and steel, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite, has pledged his support toward the 50th anniversary celebration of Nigeria’s leading football Icons, late Teslim ‘Thunder’ Balogun. The minister who made the commitment on Tuesday when the organizing committee of the Thunder Balogun 50th Anniversary Celebrations led by its chairman, Dr Rafiu Oladipo, paid him a courtesy visit in his office Abuja, said it was a honour for him to be invited to play key role in the celebration of the Nigerian great footballer who made the country proud. He commended the Lagos State government for immortalizing the football icon and urged the Nigerian government to do the same. “It is a pleasure to have been invited and by the grace of God I’ll be there to celebrate this great footballer who once traversed this land and made us proud. “It is an honour for me and when Jibola mentioned it to me, I said I don’t have a choice because we are close. Thunder Balogun left a legacy and thank God Lagos State government was able to catch on to that and they named a stadium after him which I think was the best way to immortalise him. I appreciate the way Lagos State government has done and when the place was almost abandoned, they came back to renovate it. I hope the Nigerian government can do the same to the National Stadium in Lagos because when growing up, the National Stadium was a place everybody went to not just for recreation but for social activities. I pray and hope this meets us well,” Adegbite pledged. Earlier, the chairman of the Thunder Balogun 50th Anniversary Celebration committee, Dr Rafio Oladipo, said Teslim Balogun, who died 50 years ago was Nigeria’s first professional football player who made name and robust fame playing at home and abroad and also coached the Senior National Team. He said the committee has the mission of organising a book launch, a seminar, football matches and airing documentaries on the legend during the one-week celebration in the month of July 2022. The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has also assured that it will contribute to the efforts being harnessed to immortalize the late footballer. General Secretary of the Federation, Dr Mohammed Sanusi, gave assurance when the Dr Rafiu Oladipo-led committee paid him a courtesy call in his office at the NFF Secretariat on Tuesday. “Teslim Balogun played profound and remarkable roles in Nigeria Football, both as a player and as coach. His giant footprints are there for all to see. It is important that we play a key role in the ongoing efforts to celebrate and immortalize him, because that will send the right signals to both present and upcoming players that Nigeria does care.” “When we received the letter from your committee, the NFF President said he was interested in NFF being part of the programme and he insisted that we nominate someone to represent the Federation and give us feedback on all that was being done to celebrate ‘Thunder’ Balogun. “He was an achiever and a role model, and the NFF will work with the committee to celebrate a legend of the Nigeria game.” 