By the N20 per share, the company proposes to pay total dividend of N340.82 billion on its 17. 014 billion total issued shares. In its financials for full year ended December 31, 2021, Group sales volume for Dangote Cement stood at 29.3Mt, with Nigeria accounting for 18.61 metric tonnes  while operations in other countries stood at 10.86 metric tonnes. Group revenue was N1,383.6 billion for the full year, made up of N993.34 billion from Nigeria while revenue from across African plants was N397.32 billion, in contrast to the group revenue of N1,034.20 billion in 2020 which constituted of N719.95 billion from Nigeria and N318.68 billion from other African operations. Dangote Cement recorded a gross profit of N538.37 billion and after-tax profit of N364.44 billion. The directors have proposed a dividend of N20.00 per share. Meanwhile, the firm’s commitment to environmental disclosures and sustainability is yielding the desired results with Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) raising its rating from C to B-. The CDP is an international non-profit organisation based in the United Kingdom which runs the global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions to manage their environmental impacts. CDP explained that it raised the rating as a result of the company’s commitment to climate change. The upgrade clearly illustrates the progress made by Dangote Cement regarding commitment to transparency and mitigating its carbon dioxide footprint. This is one of the highest ratings in Sub-Saharan Africa and the only Nigerian company rated by CDP. The chief executive officer of Dangote Cement Plc, Michel Puchercos, said: “We are pleased to be recognised for the progress that we are making in our environmental disclosures and sustainability. The CDP rating upgrade clearly illustrates the steps that Dangote Cement is taking in its commitment to transparency on climate and environmental issues. According to him, the cement company “is focused on making a positive difference, which is why sustainability is at the core of every part of our business. In addition, our Alternative Fuel Project is at an advanced stage which aims to leverage waste management solutions, reduce CO2 emissions, and source material locally. “This year, we co-processed 89,000 tonnes of waste, representing a 60 per cent increase over 2020.” He added that Dangote Cement was focused on sound governance, saying, “We are leading the way with our commitment to sustainability and best practices.  We are driven by the goal of achieving the highest level of governance and building a sustainable brand for all stakeholders. Transparency and consistency are at the core of every part our business culture.”   