Governors under the auspices of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) have pledged to tackle the rising cases of crude oil theft in the country. Ekiti State governor and chairman of NGF, Kayode Fayemi, disclosed this after a teleconference meeting of the Forum on Wednesday night. Recall that Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, had lamented the unprecedented rate of oil theft recorded in recent times and its debilitating effect on government revenue and accretion to reserves. Also, billionaire businessman, Tony Elumelu, stated that the reason why the country had been unable to meet its oil production quota was not because of low investment but theft. Oil Theft: Federal Govt Begins Probe Of Operators’ Accounts To Verify Claims Consequently, the Federal Government has set up a panel of experts to audit the activities of oil companies in the upstream petroleum industry in the last two years to ascertain the actual volume of crude oil stolen by vandals. However, governors in their communique also vowed to protect the country’s oil infrastructure. Fayemi said, “following a briefing by the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC), Mr. Mele Kyari, highlighted the impact of the heightened spate of crude oil theft and losses in the Niger Delta. “State Governors commended the role played by one of their own, the Governor of Rivers State, His Excellency Nyesom Wike in tackling the spate of oil bunkering in the Niger Delta and pledged to the NNPC in the region as well as security agencies in the country to protect the country’s oil infrastructure and investments as well as the ecosystem of the Niger Delta.” Fayemi also said that the Forum remains concerned about the impact of the state of insecurity on citizens’ safety, means of livelihood, and the exercise of the rights of Nigerians, particularly the right to life, right to movement, and ultimately the country’s socio-economic development. “The Forum will consequently see that all States design and operationalise an action plan to strengthen inter-ministerial coordination on peace and security, including the establishment of peacebuilding agencies and a multi-level policing framework to combat the threat of insecurity in the country,” he said. Also, following a briefing by the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, on the federal government’s plan to develop 100 oxygen generation plants and rehabilitate general hospitals to guarantee access to oxygen in all primary healthcare centers (PHCs) in the country, governors resolved to interface with the Federal Ministry of Health to ensure oxygen sufficiency for all PHCs in the country. Fayemi further stated that the governors received a briefing on the ‘Nigerian Economy: New Perspectives’, from Dr. Doyin Salami, Chief Economic Adviser to Mr. President. “After which a consensus was reached to intensify economic diversification and food security initiatives including support for large scale all-season commercial farming; strengthening fiscal sustainability. “By crowding in private investment; promoting the development of regional corridors and infrastructure plans; as well as curtailing the uncertainty associated with the oil and gas industry,” he stated.