Last week, the House of Representatives, Committee on Maritime, Safety, Education and Administration held a public hearing on certain maritime bills, that are undergoing amendment in the National Assembly. The bills are, the repeal of the act setting up, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA);  the merchant shipping act; Amendment Of Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003; Maritime Development Bank Bill and the Nigerian Maritime University Bill. Represented at the public hearing were the Shipowners Association of Nigeria (SOAN), Nigerian Chambers of Shipping (NCS), Nigerian Shipowners Association (NISA), Women in Shipping Transport Association (WISTA), Nigeria, Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), Chartered Institute of Transport Administration (CIoTA), National Association of Master  Mariners (NAMM), National Council of Managing Director of Liscenced Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), Maritime lawyers, among others. The various groups, argued that they are committed to the development of the Nigerian Maritime and will support the NASS process of reviewing legislations and other Maritime industry bills that will, shape the sector. The Nigerian Maritime University, Okerenkoko, Bill Of all the bills, the bill unanimously rejected by stakeholders is the Nigerian Maritime University Bill, Okerenkoko. The bill was seeking increased funding for the university, despite the funding it gets from other sources. The NMU bill, according to, the ministry of Transportation and other stakeholders at the public hearing, is over ambitious and excessive. The proposed NMU bill sought amendment of the NIMASA act, 2007, to provide not less than 12 per cent of the agency’s revenue be given to the university. First to turn down the proposal was the minister of transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Amaechi, in his submission, said the institution, like every other universities, have access to fund appropriated by the National Assembly on an annual basis. The minister who was represented by director, Legal Service of the ministry, Paul Oteh, said, “The ministry does not support this amendment as the proposal. It is not only excessive, but, equally not cognizant of the diverse other responsibilities of NIMASA, which require the deployment of its revenues in an increasingly challenging fiscal environment. “The proposal, in our view, also does not recognise the fact that the university, like other public institutions under the supervision of the NUC and the Federal Ministry of Education, is ordinarily entitled to public funds as may be appropriated by the National Assembly on an annual basis.”  Amendment Of Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003 At the public hearing, shipowners, identified issues of concern in the proposed amendments to the Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003. According to them, the Definition Section (Section 56); Waivers and Licenses; Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) and penalties, were their area of concern, in the new bill. According to the president, SOAN, Dr Mcgeorge Oyung, who spoke on behalf of the Shipowners, section 56 of the draft, introduced a new definition and scope of Cabotage. He said, “‘Coastal and inland Shipping’ is to be replaced with ‘Coastal and inland commercial activities’ and the nomenclature change is also to be reflected In sections 15,21,23,26 and 28 of the Act . Cabotage is also restricted to carriage of goods er substances of commercial value. However, the group of Shipowners, opined that ‘Marine navigation’ is not defined, clearly in the reviewed bills, “maritime navigation is not defined, so the question of whether, vertical movement amounts to marine navigation is still a moot point. As a result, some oil and gas platforms may still be outside the cabotage scope. It is unclear which commercial value is relevant, whether of the carriage itself, or of the goods and substances being carried. There is no definition or threshold of what commercial value is, nor of what makes the determination Shipowners, however, recommended that the definition section should be amended to clearly stipulate who determines commercial value. Is it an authority, the operator and/or market pricing? “The definition of vessel should be expanded. Typically, an inclusion of clauses which allow reference to sister legislations in interpreting/defining the nature and scope of vessel may suffice. There should be a clear definition of what ‘marine navigation’ is in the Act. “The concept and base amount of what constitutes ‘commercial value’ should be clearly defined. Paragraph ‘d’ of the ‘Coastal and Inland commercial activities’ definition should be reconstructed to show which commercial value is relevant -the carriage of the goods/substances, the goods/substances being carried, or both.” On provision of waivers and licenses, stakeholders, said omission and or failure to clearly define ‘waiver’ makes the subject formless with possibility of abuse in its application by NIMASA. They argued that the process leading to the review or revocation of any waiver by the minister seems bereft of any fair-hearing mechanism, saying, no clear considerations to guide the minister’s decision on revocation or review of a waiver as it may give room for the abuse of such powers. But, stakeholders, recommended to the House Committee, that the defintion of vessel should be expanded with an inclusion of clauses which allow references to sister legislations in interpreting, defining the nature and scope of vessel may suffice. They said: “there should be a clear definition of what ‘marine navigation’ is in the Act. The concept and base amount of what constitutes ‘commercial value’ should be clearly defined. Paragraph ‘d’ of the Coastal and inland commercial activities’ definition should be reconstructed to show which commercial value is relevant — the carriage of the goods, substances. The goods, substances being carried, or both and the definition section should be amended to clearly stipulate who determines commercial value an authority, the operator and/or market pricing. “Generally, clauses which expressly allow reference to other sister enactments such as the NIMASA Act, NPA Act etc. should be included in the Act. This would be relevant, where novel issues, neither provided for, nor envisaged in Act arises in future.  Amendment Of Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund (CVFF) Act On the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund (CVFF), maritime stakeholders, said the disbursement framework does not provide for the involvement of industry operators in the process. They also opposed extension of the CVFF to areas like ship building, ship repairs and capacity development, “Notable proposed changes, include that the CVFF would now be domiciled with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and that the purpose of the CVFF has been extended to areas like ship building, ship repairs and capacity development. Also, the draft extends the sources of funding the CVFF to, inland commercial activities. it further mandates that 5% of the CVFF shall be applied to the Maritime Security Fund for maritime safety and security “ The nature and scope of capacity development under the Act should be expressly defined. Inland commercial activities, to serve as sources of funding should be specifically listed, described and or defined to avoid interference with other government agencies such as the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA). “Key considerations for the guidelines to be issued by the Minister and the actual disbursement of the CVFF should be expressly provided for in the Act. This, should include, management of the funds by development banks such as Bank of Industry (BOI) or Nigeria Export Import Bank (NEXIM), with maximum interest rates. “The exercise of ministerial powers under the Act should be reviewed and limited or completely removed to enable more speed in decision making, particularly where the Agency has all the relevant technical information and competence to act from the onset,’ he stressed.  Nigerian Maritime Development Bank Bill Stakeholders, also dumped, the Nigerian Maritime Development Bank bill,  over, likelihood of misuse of the fund by the Bank. They argued that the bank was to be set-up with functions beyond promoting ship acquisition. According to a Maritime lawyer, Emeka Akabogu, administration of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) Section 5 (c) of the Bill, confers on the Maritime Bank, the function of administration of the CVFF, set up under the Cabotage act. He added, that the bill does not set out any guideline for the administration of the fund, so as, to achieve the objective of the fund. He said, “According to Section 44 of the Cabotage Act, the fund shall be collected by NIMASA and deposited in commercial banks and administered under guideline that shall be proposed by the Minister and approved by the National Assembly. ‘‘There is a real likelihood of misuse of the Fund by the Bank, especially, as the Bank is set up with functions beyond promoting ship acquisition. Also, the fact that the fund is to be collected by NIMASA, deposited with commercial Banks (or the CBN as proposed under the Cabotage Bill), and administered by the Maritime Bank will likely make room for conflict especially as there is no guideline outlining how that relationship will work and how the fund is to be disbursed. ‘‘As noted earlier, the Bill proposes that the Bank will administer the CVFF. The Bill sets out clearly, how the proceeds of the fund will be used. It provides for the setting up of an expensive bureaucracy that will administer the bank, including a board of director, a chief executive officer, executive directors, staff, offices and all the trappings of civil service maintenance that comes with it. “It is noteworthy that the Bill expressly provides that the proceeds of the fund, will be applied to the costs of administration of the Maritime Bank, or reimbursing members of the Board or of any committee set up by the Board for expressly authorized by the Board.”                                            “This comes into direct conflict with the powers of the NIMASA act under section 39, which mandates the agency to undertake measures to eliminate unfair and uncompetitive practices by shipping companies; and develop and implement policies and measures to promote indigenous ownership of ships and shipping infrastructure. “It is our opinion, that this bill does not promote value addition to the Nigerian maritime industry, but will encourage waste and injustice as currently constituted. All ideas, for harnessing funds for development of shipping as proposed under this bill can effectively be implemented under the terms of the CVFF or of a bank, on terms that do not require the use of funds, already designated for ship-owners or any other extant initiative. We, therefore, recommend that the Bill is rejected in its entirety.”  Conclusion Stakeholders, at the end of the hearing, said their comments, interventions and recommendations be given due and positive consideration in the next stage for a legislation that will guide, re-organise and spur the development of the maritime sector.