The minister of youth and sports development, Mr Sunday Dare, has admonished parents to allow their children partake in sporting activities, saying the federal government through the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development will not stop working round the clock to return Nigeria to its glorious days of a robust school sports system. The Minister made the call at the 3rd annual inter-house sports competition of the Paris Africana International School held yesterday at the Aguiyi Ironsi Cantonment Sports Arena in Asokoro, Abuja. Dare, who was represented by his media aide, Mr Kola Daniel, said several ex-internationals and sports icons like Daniel Amokachi, Marry Onyali, Late Stephen Keshi, Emmanuel Babayaro and others were discovered through a functional school sports system. He said his principal believes in the combination of sports and education as a viable tool for proper students’ development and he is committed toward restoring schools to its invaluable place in sports stars’ development. “Sports stars like Daniel Amokachi, Marry Onyali, Late Stephen Keshi, Emmanuel Babayaro and others were unearthed through a functional school sports system and my principal, Hon Sunday Dare, is committed to returning our schools to its invaluable place in sports stars’ development,” Kola said. Former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Emmanuel Babayaro, who was one of the ex-internationals present at the one-day inter-house sports competition of the Paris Africana International School, was full of praise for Paris Africana International School for investing in sports development and promised to help mentor some of the kids in sports mentorship. “I was thrilled with the atmosphere as soon as I got in. I love the investment Paris Africana international School has made in sports and this will be the beginning of greatness for the talents in the school. “We will always provide mentorship and support to these kids so that they grow to be better than we were,” Babayaro said. Reacting, the director of the school, Engr. Gbenga Nowoola, expressed delight with the willingness of the ex-internationals to provide mentorship and support to the young aspiring sports starlets in the school. He said that the school will keep providing a platform for the students to sharpen their skills until they get to professional level. Paris Africana International Schools, Abuja, is one of the leading institutions in the country with its robust model for combining sound education and sports. Aside Babayaro, other ex-Super Eagles stars who were on ground to light up the torch and provide mentorship for the young and aspiring sports starlets of the institution were president, Nigerian Players’ Union, Tijanni Babangida and technical officer of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Garba Lawal.