In a first of its kind, lawmakers in the Senate yesterday rejected a request by President Muhammadu Buhari to amend the Electoral Act signed into law on 25th February, 2022. This followed the failure of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill to scale through second reading on the floor during plenary. The move to reject the bill entitled “A Bill for an Act to amend the Electoral Act 2022 and for related matters, 2022” followed a call from Senator Adamu Aliero (Kebbi Central) for it to be stepped down after Senate Leader Yahaya Abdullahi moved a motion for the bill to be read a second time. The president had written to the lawmakers to delete Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act Amendment Act which required government appointees to resign their positions before seeking elective offices. Aliero, who came under a point of order, drew the attention of his colleagues to the provision of Rule 52(5) of the Senate Standing Order. Order 52(5) provides that, “Reference shall not be made to any matter on which a judicial decision is pending, in such a way as might in the opinion of the President of the Senate prejudice the interest of parties thereto.” He, therefore, advised the upper chamber to step down consideration of the bill, pending the vacation of a court order delivered by the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday. According to the lawmaker, going ahead with the amendment of the Act was in clear conflict with the sub judice rule in law which prevents the legislature from deliberating or considering any matter already before a court of competent jurisdiction. “Going ahead to consider the bill obviously will mean that we are disrespecting that order, and this is an institution of the Senate – the symbol of Nigeria’s lawmaking body. “We should not be seen to be disobeying the court order. No matter how bad that court order is, we should respect it. So, I’m of the opinion that we should stop considering this bill pending the time the court sets aside that order,” Aliero said. The court, in a ruling delivered by Inyang Ekwo on an ex-parte application by the Peoples Democratic Party, barred President Muhammadu Buhari, the Attorney General of the Federation and the Senate President from tampering with the newly amended Electoral Act 2022. The court maintained that the Electoral Act, having become a valid law, could not be altered without following the due process of law. The Senate president, while ruling on Aliero’s point of order, insisted that the move by the upper chamber to amend the Electoral Act was in line with exercising its constitutional duties. “To be specific to this particular request, for us in the Senate, it is to look at the request and follow our due process. Looking at the request does not mean granting the request. Members of the National Assembly are at liberty to review the request to see if the arguments by the Executive arm of government are convincing enough. “If the arguments are not convincing enough, the National Assembly can deny the request, and that is how it is. We have no incumbrance from that order. So, it is for senators here to decide to vote for this amendment or vote against it. “I think we are not breaching any law; in fact, we are trying to promote democracy because to do otherwise may mean that one day someone will go to court and say that the Senate of the National Assembly should not sit. “I want to appeal to all of us, that we are on the right course and my ruling remains that we are going ahead to consider the proposal which the Leader of the Senate is leading the debate. “At the end of the debate, we are going to vote, and the vote will decide the fate of the bill. “I’m sure all of us know that whatever we do here is to protect democracy and the sanctity of the upper chamber,” the Senate President said. The Senate Leader was then given the floor to lead the debate on the Electoral Act Amendment bill. Contributing to the debate, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe (Abia South), said, “There are certain things that we see which we think we don’t even have to come here to debate. One of those things is the fact that in every democracy, all over the world, there are certain rules which we don’t need to be told about. “One of those rules is the fact that you cannot be a referee and a player on the same field. It is either you’re a referee or a player. “So, in every other place in the world where democracy is practised including Nigeria, we don’t need to be told that if we want to run for office, we have to resign. That is a sine qua non that we don’t even need to debate. “Yet here we are today in Nigeria, and people think they can sit in an office and contest an election and become candidates and continue to sit in that office until the date of election. So, how would we continue to debase democracy in this way? “Mr. President, I think, a cursory look at this paper shows that this paper is dead on arrival. And I urge you, my colleagues, to help us to continue to deepen democracy by insisting that this bill be not read a second time in any manner whatsoever.” Smart Adeyemi (Kogi West), who was also opposed to the consideration of the bill, said, “Some of the hallmarks of democracy are justice, fairness and equity. Indeed, Mr. President, it is a settled matter in law that you cannot be a judge over your own case. “In any election, where people have the added advantage of holding executive power, either by proxy or directly or by appointment, for such people to have access and compete with others who came from the street, I think is an unjust society. “Therefore, Mr. President, I disagree with all the arguments on the need to consider a decision that had already been settled.” A move by Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege to sway his colleagues was unsuccessful. The bill, when eventually put to a voice vote for second reading by the Senate President after its consideration, received a resounding ‘nay’ from senators across party lines. Meanwhile, the Inter-party Advisory Council (IPAC),  has warned that the crisis leading to the rejection of Buhari’s request for further amendment of the electoral act will land at the Supreme Court. IPAC, which is the umbrella body of all political parties in Nigeria, said many interest groups will approach the court on the matter, but added that it is the beauty of democracy. IPAC added that the action of the Senate is at variance with the constitution. “It is democracy in action. But it does not go well with the provisions of the constitution,” IPAC chairman Yabagi Sani, said while reacting to what transpired at the Senate plenary yesterday. “I don’t think the Senate can go against the constitution of the country. Although democracy allows people to express their views, one would have expected that the National Assembly would treat the matter within the borders of the constitution. “The fact of the matter is that more people will go to court. There is already an existing court injunction that the Senate should not tamper with the bill at the National Assembly,  but you know that the supreme court is there to finalise the issue, ” Sani said.   NCFront Lauds Senate Decision On Buhari’s Electoral Act Meanwhile, the National Consultative Front (NCFront) led by former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Alhaji Umar Ghali Na’ Abba has praised the Senate’s decision to throw out President Buhari’s Bill seeking to amend the Electoral Act, 2022. The Bill was overwhelmingly rejected by senators, a development that effectively stopped its second reading and passage. Dr Yunusa Tanko, the head of publicity of NCFront, the newly initiated group of eminent Leaders of Conscience in Nigeria, told LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja that any attempt to amend any clause in the Bill means that the entire Bill will be revisited and will affect the nation’s electoral process. According to him, “Any attempt to amend any clause in the Bill means that the entire Bill will be revisited, and also taken back to the National Assembly and go through the whole legislative process it passed through again.” He also noted that going ahead with the amendment of the Act means that the Bill will again be adopted by both Houses before it will be sent to the president for assent. “Therefore any attempt to amend the Clause will affect the nation’s electoral process. We support the National Assembly on this matter,” he added.