A group known as Itsekiri National Youth Council (INYC), has threatened to disrupt the 2023 elections in Warri, Delta State should the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) fail to honour a subsisting court judgment delivered in Benin City, Edo State, and an agreement entered into in 2019 to implement the recognised 10 electoral Wards in Warri South local government area instead of the 12 that is currently in use. Chairman of INYC, Mr. Weyinmi Agbateyiniro, stated this on Tuesday during a protest by the group at the Unity Fountain, Abuja, demanding that the INEC leadership should come and address them within three days that they would occupy the venue or else they would have no other option than to ensure that there won’t be any form of election in Warri henceforth. According to him, as at 1999, Warri South had 10 electoral wards shared between Itsekiri people and other ethnic groups that make up the local government area, but INEC “mischievously” merged some of the wards dominated by Itsekiri and divided those of the non-Itsekiri to increase the number to 12 electoral wards so as to give the other groups undue political advantage over the Itsekiri people. Agbateyiniro revealed that they went to court against INEC and others and the judgment was in their favour, but INEC has refused to honour the court judgement, which was delivered since May 19, 2006 before the Hon. Justice P.F. Olayiwola of the Federal High Court, Benin Judicial Division.  The Itsekiri National Youth Council further presented a copy of a letter it wrote to the INEC chairman on January 4, 2019 asking INEC to revert to the earlier 10 electoral wards instead of the 12, but INEC has neither obeyed the court ruling nor honour a memorandum they both entered into ahead of 2019, in the interest of fairness, justice and equity. Agbateyiniro stated, “That since INEC is a creation of the law and expected at all times to totally obey all subsisting court judgements, we are, therefore, counting strongly on you to do the needful as you have always done since you took over as INEC chairman by using only materials recognising these 10-ward structures to conduct elections in Warri South Local Government Area. “This Council shall resist any attempt to use illegal wards to conduct elections in Warri South Local Government Area.” He said that there was protest going on simultaneous at INEC office in Warri, but they in Abuja could not protest at INEC premises because of security issues, but promised to continue at the Unity Fountain until the INEC leadership comes to address them or better still resolve the matter as earlier ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. Meanwhile, a copy of the memorandum of understanding signed by INEC and INYC, which was witnessed by security agents reads: “Upon the amicable resolution reached between the Resident Electoral Commission (REC) of INEC Asaba and the representatives of the Itsekiri National Youth Council (INYC), in respect of the implementation of the 10 wards judgment delivered by the Federal High Court and the Court of Appeal, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) hereby agrees to do needful in respect of the ward structure after the 2019 elections.” The Council added that it was worried that INEC has not respected the agreement, but is rather preparing to conduct the 2023 general elections using what it called a faulty template.