Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has declared that 2023 is the last chance to salvage Nigeria, adding that the country will be doomed if wrong leaders emerge. Atiku stated this while wooing members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the House of Representatives to back his presidential ambition yesterday in Abuja. The former vice president has since embarked on consultation for his 2023 presidential bid despite opposition from some quarters within his party, PDP. Addressing the lawmakers, Atiku said he is designing a policy document that will guide effectively in the implementation of solutions to the country’s challenges. While he noted that the policy document is now undergoing review, he however said PDP’s victory in 2023 would depend on the candidate it produces at the primary elections at all levels, stressing “it is why we must choose those that can easily win at the secondary election.” He said “This is the last chance for this country to get it right. Any failure to elect the right leaders now means Nigeria is doomed. That is why this election is not for us or our personal interest, it is about salvaging the country and I want to seek your support to help me do that,” he told the lawmakers. He continued, “We are in one of the trying times in our history as a country, with the increase in poverty, joblessness, insecurity, inflation, economic recession and serious division. There has never been a time when Nigeria needs credible leadership than now. “PDP is in a better position to offer Nigerians that desirable and competent leadership. That is what I want to offer, I want to offer solutions to our problems, but we have to do it together.” Speaking for the PDP lawmakers, minority leader in the House of Representatives, Hon Ndudi Elumelu, however lamented the disunity within the party ahead of the 2023 polls. He however added they do not doubt Atiku’s mental and physical capacity needed to drive PDP to win the election. “But what we have always said is that we are not happy with the way and manner we are not trying to unite ourselves. that we must unite ourselves to take over from the APC led government. “They have corrupted this nation and the only way we can get that power back, which Nigerians are hoping and praying that God will answer Nigerians’ prayer through PDP is by us getting united.