President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday invited Imo State Governor Hope Uzodinma, over the worsening insecurity in the state. Last Sunday, Buhari described as “deeply distressing” the destruction in Imo State, of buildings and assets of the police and the home of the president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Professor George Obiozor. Speaking to State House correspondents after meeting with the president, Uzodinma said Buhari approved his request for additional manpower, ammunition and arms. He said, “Generally is the subject of insecurity in the South East and what is required to ensure that it is properly controlled. “We discussed that and he took my recommendations seriously and indeed I tell you he immediately approved all that which included an increase in manpower of security agencies and then logistics support ranging from additional arms and ammunition. “Also, we are making use of our local vigilantes and the involvement of community leaders to ensure that through community arrangements, additional security is provided to the people. “Well, you will recall a few days ago, the home of the presidential-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo was attacked by gunmen and on the same night, a police station in Umuguma Owerri West was also attacked. “And for a very long time, if you remember, we’ve never had such a situation, our people have relaxed, thinking insecurity has become a thing of the past. “But to the glory of God, security agencies rose to the challenge and by the second day, they were properly repelled by security agencies, particularly men of the State Security Service (SS). They have been very useful working with other security agencies,” he said. Uzodinma reiterated that the crisis in Imo was sponsored by politicians. He stated, “I didn’t say, political bandits. So, I know that it is banditry and the crisis ravaging the country. I have said times without number the one in Imo State, in particular, is politically contrived and we’re working with security agencies to unravel those behind it. And I am very confident that sooner or later they will be unravelled.” On moves by his administration to achieve peace in the state, he said since January 2020, when he came into office, one of the things I initiated was quarterly stakeholders meeting. As a matter of fact, I have had six stakeholders’ engagements. “And the purpose of that engagement is to create a platform where the stakeholders will meet and will also act as an opinion poll to involve people in governance and that has yielded a lot of positive results,” he said. 