Vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, has picked the PDP presidential forms for the 2023 election. The expression of interest and nomination forms were purchased on his behalf by a group of his supporters under the aegis of Likeminds for Peter Obi, at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja yesterday. Speaking for the groups, Ekene Nwakuche, who said they don’t belong to any political party, added that Obi has what it takes to manage a country like Nigeria. Noting that they are a group of young Nigeria professionals who feel the country is going in the wrong direction, Nwakuche said the country needs a technocrat, a seasoned technocrat who can steer the affairs of the country in the right direction, and cut down the cost of governance. He added, “We believe that if we cut down the cost of governance, that the country would move in the right direction. And we’ve been following, we are different individuals in the group, professionals, businessmen, public servants, different categories of contractors, artisans, we have members from everywhere in Nigeria, we’re fully represented. “So, we want the country to move forward. We think Peter Obi can steer it forward and we believe in him because we’ve seen what he did in Anambra when he was a governor. And we have heard him talk, he has the wealth of experience to lead Nigeria to the Promised Land. We’re not in this thing because of any gain. We’re doing it because of our children to come. Because if we don’t get it right this time around, this 2023, I don’t know where we’ll be. “Each and every one of us here knows how the country is and we want a better Nigeria. And I believe that if you’re from Nigeria, be it from the north, south, east, west, and you know, you want a better Nigeria, I don’t think there’s any other person that you’ll support than Peter Obi. “ The group further urged PDP to support Obi to scale through at the primaries to fly the flag of the PDP. “There are other groups here that joined us too like another nonpartisan group called Take Back Nigeria. And different groups. They want a better Nigeria. And they believe that no other person can do it for us than Peter Obi. “Take Back Nigeria’’ group say they will bring 10 million votes, the youth vote to PDP to Peter Obi. So if the PDP gets it right and picks Peter, we know that we will deliver Nigeria to you. And we prayed that he would lead us to the Promised Land. “The Nigerian dream we’re all looking for can be achievable and the only person that we believe that can give us the Nigerian dream is no other person than His Excellency Mr. Peter Gregory Obi. “I’ll say it again, we’re a nonpartisan group. We are just concerned Nigerian youths, young Nigeria professionals concerned and we pray that you people will listen to us and we pray the delegates will listen to us when it gets to the time,” he said. 