The executives and members of Cleanse and Clean Abia Group (CACAG) has dragged a Bishop of Methodist Church Nigeria, Sunday Onuoha, into the 2023 gubernatorial race. The group also issued a 14-day notice to Bishop Onuoha to accept and run for Abia governorship in the forthcoming 2023 elections. In a communique issued after their meeting on March 31, 2022, in Umuahia, Abia State, the group said having scrutinised and x-rayed the list of eminently qualified ndi Abia that are fit and proper to lead Abia State together with the list of aspirants who are already jostling for the governorship ticket of various political parties, it observed that Bishop Onuoha towers above others in terms of verifiable and impressive antecedents, integrity, academic qualifications, pedigree, administrative sagacity and wealth of experience. The communique jointly signed by the convener, Hon. Uchenna Emehelu; Chief Mrs Oge Nnatu, Secretary; Dr Chidera Onyenka, Publicity Secretary; Sir Stephen Omile, member; Mrs Joy Inyi, Woman leader and Mr Paul Kalu, youth leader, said, “Bishop Sunday Onuoha is the Bishop of the masses, entrepreneur, a perfect gentleman, humble, reliable, open minded, firm in action, serial employer of labour, silent philanthropist, peacemaker, bridge builder, unifier, pacesetter, global citizen, a great Minister of the gospel, to mention but a few. In him, we have a man with a clean heart, and unblemished record. “He is a man filled with the milk of human kindness. Historically, since 1999, various leaders have emerged to lead ndi Abia. From 1999 to 2007, a businessman in the person of His Excellency Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu led Abia State. From 2007 to 2011, a technocrat in the person of His Excellency Chief Theodore Ahamefule Orji led Abia State. “Presently, Abia State is being led by an academician in the person of His Excellency Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu. “We firmly believe that now is the appointed time to support a well known technocrat, academician, philanthropist and a man of God. It is time to handover our dear Abia State known as God’s own State into the hands of God’s own servant. “As concerned ndi Igbo, to compel Bishop Dr. Sunday N. Onuoha to present himself and agree to be available to run for the office of the Executive Governor of Abia State in the forthcoming Governorship election. “This 14 days notice commence today 31st of March, 2022 and terminates on 14th day of April, 2022. That at the expiration of the 14 days notice, if Bishop Dr. Sunday N. Onuoha has not declared his intention to ndi Abia, we shall be left with no option than to legally compel Bishop Dr. Sunday N. Onuoha to run as Aspirant/Candidate in the 2023 Abia State Governorship election. “Unanimously and believe wholeheartedly that Bishop Dr. Sunday N. Onuoha is the right man for the number one job in Abia State. He has done so much for ndi Abia and the world at large through his Vision Africa project. He is the desired balm and solution for ndi Abia and the servant leader that will heal, cleanse, clean, and transform Abia State. “To actualise our mission by unequivocally endorsing Bishop Dr. Sunday N. Onuoha and to purchase his nomination and expression of interest form once he accept our call and signal the political party he desires to use as a vehicle for the actualization of our demand. “That we shall commence massive mobilization of ndi Abia and ndi Igbo from the diaspora down to the Umunna level to ensure the message and gospel of cleansing and cleaning Abia State gets to all and sundry. “Finally, we call on all political parties to provide a level playing ground for all aspirants and to ensure a free, fair, credible and transparent primary election for all elective positions in Abia State, Southeast, and Nigeria as a whole.”