Former Imo State deputy governor, Prince Eze Madumere, has called on minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, to contest the office of president in the 2023 general election. Madumere, who made the call while speaking to journalists in Owerri, the state capital, yesterday extolled the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over a successful national convention. Accordingly, the party would do Nigerians a great favour if it gives its presidential ticket for the 2023 elections to Amaechi. He noted that Amaechi, a two-term governor of Rivers State and two-term Speaker of the Rivers House of Assembly, possesses the requisite experience to steer Nigeria’s ship to safe waters. He added that Amaechi’s candidacy would enable the APC to respond positively to the general expectation that presidential power should return to the south of Nigeria in 2023. He further stressed that with Amaechi as APC’s presidential flag bearer, the party would have met the quest by the Igbo in particular to have one of their own occupy the number one office in the country, since Amaechi is an Igbo man. His words: “Amaechi’s candidacy will be accepted by every part of the South and the South-East in particular since he is an Igbo and my people are clamouring for a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction. “If the truth must be told, the average northerner is hesitant over the idea of a president from the South-East for reasons that are quite obvious and as far as I am concerned, there is little or no time to change that narrative. “So for me, the right thing to do would be to field   Hon. Amaechi who, though not from the South-East, is an Igbo man. In other words, the average Igbo will vote for Him. He is one of us, so it will be a win-win situation for the party”. He however said although Amaechi had earlier denied nursing a presidential ambition, “only a dead man cannot change his mind”. “I think we have gotten to a stage where Nigerians should identify those they deem capable of leading the country and encourage them to run. “There are so many  people  who admire Hon. Amaechi for his sterling qualities and his impeccable performance both as a governor and currently as a minister “, he stated.