Let me say that in Ebonyi State we see the issue of the suit against our Governor and his deputy and other lawmakers as a distraction by the opposition forces. It did not start recently, the moment the governor defected to the APC; they had to dish out a lot of fake news and false information aimed at bringing down the name of our dear Governor. Initially they said he was a Fulani man, they also accused him of using the security outfit to chase them away and all of that. The thing now is that as a governor, who defected to APC that PDP should now be the candidate and now win election and then be sworn-in. As a lawyer, I can say that is very untenable, very unconstitutional and has no place in jurisprudential realities.  We want to say so far good, the state High Court in Ebonyi State has looked  at the  issues, the propriety of the assertion that once a governor defects to another party that he loses his seat. The state High Court in its judgment of 28 February 2022, declared that under the Constitution and under extant laws, there is no provision at all that does criminalize or make it an offence that if you move to another party as a governor or deputy that you must vacate your office. Therefore the court directed that the governor has violated no constitution and therefore remains the governor of  Ebonyi State irrespective of the fact that he moved to another political party. Few days later, the Federal High Court, which has coordinate jurisdiction with the state High Court, gave a different judgment that is inconsistent with the judgment of its brother court, who is materially even a senior judge to him. So, the issue became that of electing the judgment to obey. So, we elected to obey the judgment of court that came in time that determined the issue. So, the High Court of the state appropriately determined that very matter in favour of the governor and his deputy relying on the judicial authority of the Supreme Court in the case of  Atiku Abubakar and three others and Attorney General of the Federation and two others, and also relying on the judgment obtained at the Federal High Court in Zamfara state about the same time of the same subject. And also relying on the fact there is no provision in the Constitution that provides that once you defect you should vacate your office. So, based on that our government chose to obey the rule of law, however, in order to set the records straight and to ensure that the rule of law is respected and protected, the governor has to appeal to the Court of Appeal in line with his right under the Constitution. He has an unfettered right to appeal for stay execution. He is occupying the office and has the right to appeal up to the Supreme Court. So, everything is fine.  So, you are saying that only the Supreme Court can sack the Governor and his deputy? That is the position and again with a rider that the Supreme Court has already settled the matter in the case of Atiku vs the Attorney General of the  Federation that defection of a governor or his deputy, defection of the President or the Vice President cannot warrant the vacation of such a person. The Supreme Court further made reference to what constitutes reasons for vacation of office of the governor under the Constitution. One is on grounds of death; on grounds of resignation or incapacitation and on grounds of impeachment under section 188 of the Constitution by the Legislature. Defection is not among. And from section 1 to section 153 of the Electoral Act, there is nothing there that contemplates the issue of removal of the governor.  What will you say about the PDP nomination of Igariwey for the position of the governor following the court judgment? It is a complete aberration and an exercise of political arbitrariness by the PDP. I said this because there is nowhere in the world where somebody, who is not screened and never contested election will be awarded the position of the governor. It is laughable and that is why INEC does not want to succumb to that blackmail to swear in somebody that is not a candidate.  Court judgment declared that political parties win elections and therefore your governor cannot transfer the mandate given to the PDP to the APC. The Supreme Court also gave similar Judgment in the case of Rotimi Amaechi and Celestine Omehia. What is your reaction to this? In the case of Amaechi and INEC in the Omehiacase, a law has been made to take care of that. A law made by the National Assembly has said that that decision of the Supreme Court is no longer tenable. And the Supreme Court has made an overriding decision on that to say that the actual situation is that the winner of the election is not the party but the candidate. The Supreme Court has ruled that the party is the agent of the candidate; therefore the owner of votes is the candidate. That is the new law.  Will this court case and the political issues surrounding it not undermine the presidential ambition of Governor Umahi? Every Nigerian, especially men of good will, know very well that this legal battle is more political than legal. The essence is to ambush the Governor and see how to distract him and possibly use extra legal means to oust him. But I can tell them that we have overcome by the power of God. The distraction is rather a blessing in disguise in the sense that many people who never knew Governor Umahi, who never thought of him being a credible candidate to contest the Presidential election, are now beginning to appreciate him. Legal luminaries and others are beginning to discuss the case of Governor Umahi and 99% of the discussion is in favour of Umahi. It has thrown his popularity up. The opposition has wittingly or unwittingly projected the Governor.  The Governor has track records of achievements in the state and even the opposition agreed on this. He explained that the nation’s  constitution is clear about the matter, adding that: “Hon. Saheed Popoola was deemed to have vacated the Ojomu/Balogun State Constituency seat having defected from APC to SDP since there is no division in the political party that previously sponsored him.” He disclosed that the Assembly had officially informed the state’s resident electoral commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of the development for further necessary actions. LEADERSHIP recalls that Popoola had last week announced his defection from APC to SDP at the floor of the House.