The construction of the Second Niger Bridge has lingered over the years with the federal government doing upward review of the contract in each budget year. There has been a lot of politics around it and the people of the South East region are anxiously waiting for the day the project will be completed. The Second Niger Bridge is a key national infrastructure, with immense socio-economic benefits for the contiguous states and indeed the entire nation. Upon completion, the bridge will ease traffic flow, improve road safety, and create greater opportunities for local residents by advancing the commercial viability of the immediate area and regenerating economic life. The construction of the Second Niger Bridge project commenced on March 10, 2014, when former President Goodluck Jonathan flagged it off. The bridge, which is being constructed across the River Niger in Nigeria, is a federal government project that involves the construction of a total length of 11.9 kilometres of road infrastructure, including a 1.6-kilometre tolled concrete box-girder bridge with two superstructures. The bridge works also include a six-lane 10.3-kilometre approach highway. The project was awarded as a design, build, finance, operate, and transfer contract to the consortium of Julius Berger-Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (JB-NSIA Consortium) – a public-private partnership with the federal government contributing about 28 per cent of the project fund while Julius Berger contributes 72 per cent. The latter has a 30-year management of the project roads and bridges on completion to recover its costs through the payment and collection of toll fees. There is no gainsaying that this is a very good project that would benefit Nigeria as a whole. The continuity of purpose exhibited in this project can be a model for such economically strategic projects across the nation. In 2018, the estimated cost of the bridge was put at about N206 billion when the Buhari administration awarded the contract, and it was said then that 80 of the work had been completed. In 2020, the federal government put the cost of building the 2nd Niger Bridge at N414 billion, saying the project would be completed in 2022. It explained that while the cost of the bridge is estimated at N206 billion, the 2A and 2B roads component of the project will cost about N208 billion. Today, the federal government is saying the project is 90-91 percent completed as reported by minister of Works and Housing recently during the weekly ministerial briefing at the State House. The federal government must meet its obligations timely. These include timely payments of the tranches of the counterpart funding, speeding up of bureaucratic procedures, attending to security and right of way issues, and loan guarantees. So far, the President Buhari administration is meeting with its obligations. As a newspaper, we call on the APC government to fulfill its promise of completing the project before 2023. Already the initial deadline of February 2022 has passed. The government should therefore ensure that the remaining 10 or 9 per cent of the work does not drag into the election year, when the issue can be used for another campaign. Those conversant with the project say it is dollar-tied and the inconsistent foreign exchange in the country may have caused some delay in the delivery of the project, but this time around, no excuse from the government would be good enough if it does not to keep to its pledge to deliver on this very important project. The government should also ensure the completion of the adjoining roads around the bridge to ensure longevity of the project. As it is if any traffic congestion occurs in the existing Niger Bridge, motorists will be stranded. Roads like Atani in Ogbaru local government area and Ozubulu in Ekwusigo local government area should be repaired to ensure free flow of traffic. It is also important to consider the rehabilitation of Enugu/Onitsha, Enugu/Umuahia/Aba/ Port Harcourt dual carriage ways and the Okigwe-Arondizuaogu-Akokwa-Uga-Nnewi highway to make commuting easier for Nigerians living in that part of the country.