As the 2023 general election gathers momentum, the tussle between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is intensifying and the story in Nasarawa State is not different. Part of PDP’s plan to take over the Shendam Road Government House in Nasarawa State started with a two day meeting held in Abuja two weeks ago. But, whether the outcome of this meeting can stop Governor Abdullahi Sule from returning for his second term, is another matter, as feelers from the state indicate that the governor has consolidated politically in the state through his infrastructural prowess. Also, the emergence of the national chairman of APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu from the state further gives the party a firm grip of the states political firmament. PDP had held sway in Nasarawa State before until 2011 when Governor Tanko Al-Makura of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) won. But PDP slumped further in 2015 governorship election following the primaries in which Yusuf Agabi, an erstwhile director with the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) emerged the party flag bearer. He defeated former minister of Information, Labaran Maku and former governor, Late governor, Aliyu Akwe Doma. It led to an outright protest which led to Maku’s defection to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). In 2019, the party’s fortune’s was compounded by the zoning of governorship seat to Nasarawa North, with a two time member House of Representatives, Hon Davematics David Umbugadu, Senator Philp Gyunka and Bar Solomon Ewuga vying for the exalted seat. At the end of the contest, Umbugadu emerged as the sole candidate of PDP and was left alone to converse for votes across the length and breadth of the state, giving an edge to APC governorship candidate, Abdullahi Sule. The PDP suffered a defeat due to the internal wranglings in the party which was extended to APGA which Maku ran on. The votes were shared amongst the PDP and APGA giving room to landslide victory for the incumbent governor, Engineer Abdullahi Sule. But it would seem like the PDP isn’t deterred by APC’s consolidation in the state. This is also in spite of the seeming split within the party’s ranks. So far the PDP seems to have two camps, one led by former minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Bar. Solomon Ewuga, and another led by the party chairman in the state, Hon Francis Orogu. Nevertheless, the recent Abuja meeting summoned by Ewuga, a former deputy governor of the state and senator who represented Nasarawa North Senatorial district from 2011-2015, was meant to consolidate the party’s base and one up with a consensus candidate arrangement, it was learnt. He was said to have declared that he will not contest for the governorship seat but would rather assemble the bigwigs of the party as part of measures to lure Maku to rejoin the party. Insiders at the PDP two-day meeting however said the party stakeholders  did not arrive at a conclusion on the consensus deal. Others who attended the meeting are  the governorship candidate of the party in the 2019 election, David Umbugadu; the running mate of the governorship candidate in the last election, Hon  Mohammed Ogoshi Onawo; the deputy to late Aliyu Akwe Doma, Michael Abdul; former party chairman, Chief Yunana Iliya, Adamu Oyanki, the erstwhile scribe of the party. While the Abuja meeting lasted for two days, the other faction of the PDP held a stakeholders meeting at Tudun Abu in Nasarawa State at the instance of the PDP chairman in the state. The meeting was meant to fine tune the endorsement of a candidate from Nasarawa North, where if care is not taken is going to cause friction  among the Eggon speaking people of Nasarawa Eggon local government. However confirming his return to the party, Maku declared his intention to contest the governorship seat. The one-time deputy governor and ex-commissioner in Nasarawa State, apologised to party members for leaving them in 2015. He confirmed leaving the party following his dissatisfaction with the outcome of the 2015 governorship primary. The former minister said though he could not justify his departure from the party, he asked for forgiveness from party members, adding that he had forgiven all that betrayed him in the past. “We are on a rescue mission under PDP,’’ he said and appealed to the people to vote out APC in 2023. Interestingly, Francis Orogu, PDP chairman in the state, expressed joy at his return, adding that the leadership of the party had been working since 2019 to reabsorb him. He described Mr Maku’s return as a homecoming and said that the development would add value to the PDP ahead of the forthcoming primary. However, a stakeholder from Nasarawa North senatorial zone however revealed to LEADERSHIP that a retired Army officer, Nuhu Bala Angbazo, has also joined the governorship race, predicting that he might emerge the sole candidate of the PDP. However another major concern for PDP is how it will rebuild its base considering that some of its key stakeholders have decamped to the ruling APC. These include three members of the House of Assembly and the House of Representatives member for Karu/Keffi/Kokona federal constituency, Hon Jonathan Gaza Gwebfi. More so, the recent defection of the state chairmanship hopeful, Hon Sidi Bako who recently jumped ship to a new party, in town, the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPC) has gone with a handful of his supporters. In Nasarawa local government, the likes of the former senator representing Nasarawa,Toto, Keffi, Karu and Kokona, Senator Abubakar Sodangi; former speaker Nasarawa State House of assembly, Rt Hon Musa Ahmed; Hon Adams Nyisana; former member NSHA representing Toto/Gadabuke; Hon Mohammed Baba Ibaku. In Karu local government former party members like Hon Jonathan Gaza representing Karu/Kokona/Keffi federal constituency; Hon Emmanuel Bako, Hon Muhammed Hassan (minister of Science and Technology state) are now in APC. In Akwanga local government, PDP no longer has party members like Hon Ali Agara; Damishe Luka Barau; Peter Mbuchonator; Hon Tsentse Dandaura, the current deputy speaker of the NSHA. In Lafia, Hon Joseph Kigbu; Yusuf Agabi; Hon Adamu Muazu; Hon Aliyu Bello; Hon Abubakar Sarki Dahiru (Mai Yamma); Ambassador Musa Illu were all products of PDP. In Doma local government, Hon Anthony Obande,Hon John Osewu,Hon Mustapha Galadima, Hon Musa Ibrahim, Umar Aliyu Akwe, Hon Ali Goshi,Hon Jacob Ogiri Mai Mashi and handful of youth of the PDP disappeared into oblivion. In Keana local government, the party lost highly placed politicians ranging from Hon Adams Yahaya, member of the then Plateau house of assembly (PLHA) ,others are Hon Ibrahim Aliyu, former council chairman of Awe local government. How the PDP manages this challenge will be a matter of conjecture at this point. With its ranks depleted and the scramble for it to regain its base, eyes will be on the leadership of the party in the state to shore up its ranks. Some other pundits say that with the new national party chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu coming from the North Central and from the neighboring state of Benue, it might cause a resurgence of sorts within the PDP in Nasarawa. Ahead of the 2023 governorship election, all the three governorship aspirants are from Nasarawa Eggon local government. The contestants are Gen. Nuhu Angbazo, who just retired last month; David Umbugadu and Maku. However pundits argue that the PDP needs to adopt a mechanism to unite members of the party to avoid a repeat of what happened during the last party primaries. The party chairman recently assured all contestants of a level playing ground, noting that a popular candidate that will add value to the party will emerge this time. Whether this is possible is another matter. 