The Kaduna State government yesterday said it had received belongings of some passengers who were on the attacked Abuja-Kaduna train last Monday. The commissioner, internal security and home affairs, Samuel Aruwan, in a statement said the items were handed over to the state government by the military authorities who had gathered them from within and around the scene during search operations after the attack. Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i thanked the military authorities for their careful handling and documentation of the items, comprising over 100 pieces of luggage, valuables, gadgets and personal effects. Aruwan said nine persons had already collected their items after presenting proof at the point of recovery. “The remaining belongings, received with a detailed inventory, will be carefully stored. A system for the receipt of claims will be communicated to the public subsequently,” the statement added, The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) says the attacked Abuja-Kaduna train had a seat capacity and couldn’t have had 970 passengers as alleged in the media. The managing director of NRC, Engr. Fidet Okhiria, who made the clarification in Abuja, said: “The Abuja – Kaduna service is run on a fully automated e-ticket system with entry and exit turnstiles that validate every passenger on board our trains. Ticket checkers also validate the tickets of every passenger via electronic validators linked to the central system to verify the integrity of our manifest. “398 passengers purchased tickets to travel on the NRC AK9 service, and 362  passengers actually boarded the AK9 service. The entire seat capacity of the train in question is 840, therefore, the figure of 970 being circulated cannot be correct.” “The AK9 service is the last service out of Abuja on a Monday evening and is usually at less than half capacity. Passengers on board the AK9 service on Monday have confirmed that the train was certainly not run at full capacity. “The NRC is continuing its efforts to reach out to passengers using the comprehensive manifest in order to obtain valid information about their present condition.”