Stakeholders at a conference: “Securing and enriching Nigerians at scale: Prosperity inclusion through financial sector innovation,” said such urgent steps must be taken to attract foreign direct investments to Nigeria. Nigeria ranks low regarding financial penetration. About 40 per cent of Nigeria’s population live below the poverty line, with only four per cent of the 40 million MSMEs having access to credit. NESG board member and the chief executive Officer at Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Dr Demola Sogunle highlighted the factors affecting the financial sector to include lack of credit history, inability to keep proper financial records, non-realisation of collateral, lack of management strategies, stiff competition from larger corporates and limited business presence of micro-SMEs. He believes that “there is a need to adopt partnerships that will drive mobile adoption and inclusive development. Development of credit infrastructure, creation of financial literacy programs, facilitate open banking initiatives for information sharing and collaboration to develop innovative financial products amongst stakeholders.” Dr Sogunle thinks homegrown solutions to some of the problems would have to include online payment provisions, payment data to determine lending risks which can be obtained from smartphones, SME hubs to generate records on transactional activities and improved credit scoring in the rural areas, mainly where banking activities are limited, reiterating that businesses must strengthen their capital base to survive as an SME. He opined that it is crucial for the financial sector, through commercial banks, capital markets, and the insurance sector, to play a vital role in funding capital investments and not just providing industry loans concentrated in the oil and gas sector. In his opening remarks, the group managing director of Zedcrest, Mr Adedayo Saheed Hamzat said that prosperity inclusion through financial sector innovation is a follow up to discussions at the 27th Nigerian Economic Summit (NES#27) and focuses on finding ways to enhance Nigeria’s financial environment. He noted the need to address existing gaps by focusing on three thematic points including regulation, bringing more foreign direct investments into the country and evolving the consumer window industry that will transform Nigeria into a credit driven economy. Lagos SME Boot camp convener Mr Ayo-Bankole Akintujoye, stressed the need to leverage, register, and provide credit and exposure to some clusters. “Technology alone will not solve financial inclusion problems. We need to study the characteristics critically; leverage the clusters they respect and mobilize resources using the clusters as gatemen to reach the people at the end of the funnel,” he stated. Executive commissioner (operations) at Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Mr Dayo Obisan,  said that proper financial education is essential, as, for every 100 businesses funded, only five are expected to be profitable. He said there is a need to raise capital for structured firms with proper financial record keeping. During the second panel session with the theme “Attracting Foreign Capital to Nigeria, Post-Pandemic”, head of Global Markets, Stanbic IBTC, Mr Sam Ocheho, said that necessary infrastructure must be in place for Nigeria to export and earn revenue from non-oil products, noting that fines deter foreign investors and that Nigeria ranks low on the World Bank ease of doing business index ranking. In her remarks, managing director, Agusto & Co, Mrs Yinka Adelekan said structural reforms had brought foreign investments into several countries. Nigeria needs to learn and adopt the positives from other countries for her growth and development. She reiterated the need for the laws governing fintech to continue stimulating innovation that will improve foreign direct investment and encourage companies to thrive. 