It was not clear until the survey by a development finance organisation, the Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFinA) revealed that about 53 per cent of adults were excluded from financial services in Nigeria as at 2008. That report was corroborated by many other indicators to the affirmation that a larger number of Nigerian adults – talk less of women and youths – were inadvertently excluded from the formal financial service system. That made it impossible to determine the level of financial literacy in Nigeria. And it directly affected investment opportunities for Nigeria. For the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) that was outrageous and unacceptable for a country in dire need of investment opportunities. The central bank was primarily driven by the charming potentials financial inclusion holds for every economy. It is a tool for economic development, particularly in the areas of poverty reduction, employment generation, wealth creation and improving welfare and general standard of living. The global pursuit of financial inclusion as a vehicle for economic development had a positive effect in Nigeria as the exclusion rate reduced from 53 per cent in 2008 to 46.3 per cent in 2010. Encouraged by the positive development, the CBN in collaboration with stakeholders launched the National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIs) on 23rd October, 2012 aimed at further reducing the exclusion rate to 20 per cent by 2020. Specifically, the plan was to increase the number of adult Nigerians with access to payment services from 21.6 per cent in 2010 to 70 per cent in 2020, while those with access to savings should increase from 24.0 per cent to 60 per cent; and access to credit from two per cent to 40 per cent, Insurance from one per cent to 40 per cent and pensions from five per cent to 40 per cent, within the same period. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), financial inclusion means that individuals and businesses have access to useful and affordable financial products and services that meet their needs – transactions, payments, savings, credit and insurance – delivered in a responsible and sustainable way. Since that resolve, the CBN, especially under the current administration has taken strategic steps to practically ensure that financial inclusion becomes a generally acceptable practice and tradition in Nigeria. The CBN has made deliberate efforts, deploying many tools to drive home its financial inclusion programme. Licence for telcos to conduct retail banking Most recent of such measures was the licensing of some telecommunication companies to conduct payment service banking across the country. The aim is to enhance financial inclusion alongside the development of the payment system through a secured technology-driven environment. Obviously, the CBN is leveraging the wide network coverage of the telcos to achieve its financial inclusion drive. The feeling in most quarters is that the measure will improve financial service penetration into the most remote parts of the country. That may not be far from the possibility. According to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), as at 2020, the number of active mobile telephone lines in Nigeria had risen to 180.12 million. The CBN last year, gave MTN and Airtel approvals in principle to carry out retail banking operations about two years after it reportedly granted the same category of licence to 9mobile and Globacom. Experts say beyond helping to drive financial inclusion, it will also put the conventional deposit money banks in stiff competition with the telecommunication companies, ultimately ensuring that the underserved and unserved in the rural communities of Nigeria are captured in the financial system. Economic analyst Seye Adetumbi said the measure is a strategic move, pointing to the fact through their merchant operators and agents at retail level, the telcos would ensure that the underbanked have easy access to financial services. In realisation of its new mandate, MTN recently announced that it has received final approval from the central bank to operate financial services under the licence requirements set out by the apex bank. The final approval or licence to MTN essentially means that MTN is now in the business of retail banking. What that means is that the telco can now technically operate in the rural areas or attend to the unbanked. The payment service banks (PSBs) initiative will enhance financial inclusion by increasing access to deposit products and payment/remittance services to small businesses, low-income households and other financially excluded entities through high-volume low-value transactions in a secured technology-driven environment, economic expert, Atiku Samuel said in an interview with LEADERSHIP. The general agreement is that the approval to telcos is one of the best people-oriented initiative of the Emefiele-led CBN. Almost 90 per cent of banking activities in Nigeria are concentrated in the urban centres. EFInA report on financial inclusion had reveal that about 90 per cent of banking activities in Nigeria are concentrated around cities and big towns while the rural areas seem to be neglected. One of the advantages is that the network providing companies could easily penetrate the rural conclave where they already have their internet services. eNaira The globally accepted electronic currency, eNaira of the CBN that was launched in 2021 is another measure taken to make financial transaction easy with a focus on driving financial inclusion down the line. The central bank digital currency is designed to help in attaining its goals of fostering greater inclusion using digital channels, supporting cross border payments for businesses and firms as well as providing a reliable channel for remittances inflows into the country. The eNaira was design to ensure that Nigerians in remote areas can conduct financial activities using their digital as well as feature phone devices. Minimum female representation in banks’ management Part of efforts to implement the National Financial Inclusion Strategy that recommends increasing female staff of microfinance banks to 30 per cent, the CBN under Emefiele has also issued a policy that requires a minimum of 30 per cent of female representation on boards and 40 per cent at the top management level in the Banking Industry. Digital drive for women and youths On October 28, 2021, the CBN flagged-off ‘Digital Financial Inclusion Drive for Women and Youth’ in its drive to ensure the digital financial inclusion of women and youth across Nigeria. Under the initiative, the CBN engaged its stakeholders, including the Securities and Exchange Commission in a programme to engage target groups in selected States in order to facilitate their economic empowerment and inclusion. The CBN said the programme also aims at implementing the Bank’s framework for advancing women’s financial inclusion in Nigeria and improve access to financial products and services amongst vulnerable segments of the Nigerian society. Among other things, improve financial literacy and build awareness on the benefits of the use of digital financial services and contribute to increased access to payments, savings and credit enhancement opportunities for rural women and youth across the country leveraging digital platforms. It was designed to also promote the uptake of other financial products and services amongst women and youth including insurance, pension and capital market products through agents. The CBN’s ‘Digital Financial Inclusion Drive for Women and Youth’ initiative is also making significant progress. Reports are that it has helped to bring about one million women and youth to the banking system within the last three years. Benefits of financial inclusion There are huge benefits with enormous revenue in the capital market, which he said can start with small money depending on one’s capability. As a matter of fact, financial inclusion has been identified as an enabler for seven of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. The benefits of financial inclusion and inclusive growth are clearly established. Former IMF deputy managing director Mitsuhiro Furusawa for the Conference on Financial Inclusion in West Africa aptly put it when he saif financial inclusion which guarantees access to financial services, opens doors for families, allowing them to smooth out consumption and invest in their futures through education and health. Access to credit enables businesses to expand, creating jobs and reducing inequality. Financial inclusion is the bridge between economic opportunity and outcome. That explains why the CBN-initiated financial inclusion strategy was built on four strategic areas of agency banking, mobile banking/mobile payments, linkage models and client empowerment. Four priority areas were identified for guideline and framework development namely, Tiered Know-yourCustomer (T-KYC) regulations, agent banking regulations, National financial literacy strategy and consumer protection. The channels for delivering the above financial services were equally targeted to improve, with deposit money bank branches targeted to increase from 6.8 units per 100,000 adults in 2010 to 7.6 units per 100,000 adults in 2020, microfinance bank branches to increase from 2.9 units to 5.5 units; ATMs from 11.8 units to 203.6 units, POSs from 13.3 units to 850 units, mobile agents from 0 to 62 units, all per 100,000 adults between 2010 and 2020. Other tools for financial inclusion drive The apex bank has deployed major tools for driving financial inclusion strategy in Nigeria in recent years. The tools include: agent banking, tierred know-your-customer requirements, financial literacy, consumer protection, linkage banking, implementation of the MSME development fund and credit enhancement programmes such as agricultural credit guarantee scheme (ACGS); commercial agricultural credit scheme (CACS) and Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL). In line with the 2012 NFIS monitoring plan, a review was carried out from October 2017 to June 2018 based on research reports, data analysis and stakeholder engagements. The exercise aimed to understand the current state of financial inclusion in Nigeria, assess past approaches, lessons learnt in order to prioritise the most critical interventions to achieve the objectives. Despite the remarkable success recorded by the financial authorities, there is still more work to be done. About two billion people worldwide lacked access to basic financial services as at 2016, according to reliable data. Most of them are poor, and a large proportion are African. Unarguably, Nigeria has a good share of that figure. The CBN’s ongoing drive to make Nigeria a largely financially literate nation gives hope of harnessing the potentials and opportunities it offers.