President Muhammadu Buhari has assented four Bills recently passed by the National Assembly. According to a statement by presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, on Friday, he said the assented Bills include Nigeria Law Reform Commission Act, 2022 The Act repeals the Nigeria Law Reform Commission Act, Cap. N118, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and Enact the Nigerian Law Reform Commission Act, 2022 to facilitate the effective implementation of the Commission’s Law Reform Proposals and enhance its performance and bring the law in conformity to best practices. Also, the National Biotechnology Development Agency Act, 2022, which provides legal framework for the National Biotechnology Development Agency to carry out research, create and develop public awareness in biotechnology in order to encourage private sector participation in biotechnology industry in Nigeria. Others include Harmonised Retirement Age for Teachers in Nigeria Act, 2022, which provides for the retirement age of teachers in Nigeria. Section 1 of the Act clearly states that Teachers in Nigeria shall compulsorily retire on attainment of 65 years of age or 40 years of pensionable service, whichever is earlier. While the provision of Section 3 of the Act provides that the Public Service Rule or any Legislation that requires a person to retire from the Public Service at 60 years of age or after 35 years of Service shall not apply to Teachers in Nigeria. While the Federal Medical Centre, Hong (Establishment) Act, 2022 establishes the Federal Medical Centre, Hong, Adamawa State to provide legal framework for its due management and administration The Medical Centre will be headed by a Medical Director who shall be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, and shall be the Chief Executive and accounting officer of the Medical Centre as stipulated in Section 9 of the Act. The statement added that Hon. Umar Ibrahim El-Yakub, Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on National Assembly Matters (House of Representatives), was at the State House to witness the signing of the Bills into law.