Legal luminary, Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), has called for the composition of an Interim Government at the completion of President Muhammadu-led administration  to midwife the birth of a new people’s Constitution. Babalola, who posited that the future of the country was being threatened under the present 1999 Constitution, said a new Constitution would save the country from imminent doom. He noted that much as he would want President Buhari to complete his mandatory four year tenure, an interim government should be immediately put in place at the expiration of Buhari’s tenure in 2023. The founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD), who also lamented the state of worsening security and economy in the country, said more proactive measures should be adopted to arrest the situations. Speaking to journalists on the state of the nation on Monday, he expressed concern that it would be dangerous to conduct another round of elections in 2023 without having what he called a “People’s Constitution”. Stating that the 1999 Constitution allegedly foisted on Nigerians had done more harm than good to the socioeconomic wellbeing of the country and its people, Babalola said he cannot sit back and allow things to degenerate further as a major stakeholder in Nigeria project. Ruling out the possibility of a good leader emerging from what he called a warped and weak 1999 Constitution, he warned that, “we can’t afford to toy with the destiny of the nation by conducting elections that won’t yield positive results.” Babalola added: “I decided to talk because this country is now different from the one I used to know. That is why we need a new constitution after President Muhammadu Buhari that will spell out rules and regulations on the qualifications of those who are qualified to contest elections. “I believe that whoever is seeking election as a President, governors and National Assembly member should not be more than 60 years, with good and sound health, sound education, experience, good human relations, friendliness and firmness, vision and mission, among others. “The new constitution shall provide for part-time legislators and not full-time and the attendant wasting of resources, who will be collecting allowances and not salaries. Proposes federal system of government rather than presidential system and a parliamentary system with a unicameral legislature.”