In spite of its strategic importance, healthcare delivery in Nigeria does not have the deserved attention consequent upon which the sector continued to witness brain drain with doctors and other health personnel seeking on a regular basis, the proverbial greener pastures outside the country. Essentially, dearth of infrastructures, equipment and poor pay have contributed to denying Nigerians the basic healthcare services. As a fall out, there is high rate of medical tourism with conservative estimate indicating that hundreds of millions are spent annually by Nigerians to seek health services outside the country. The appalling statistics of the nation’s health index including an intolerably high infant and maternal mortality, among other glooming indices, are part of the resultant effect of the sheer neglect of the health sector. This neglect is responsible for the frequent strike action often embarked on by health workers. A 2009 Nigerian National Health Conference report revealed that the nation’s healthcare system is weak, hence could not to meet the health needs of the citizens. Specifically, the report cited lack of coordination, fragmentation of services, dearth of resources, poor supply of drugs, inadequate and decaying infrastructure, inequity in resource distribution, and poor access to healthcare, which are in deplorable condition as common predicaments associated with the sector. In Katsina, as is with most states, the health sector is bedeviled with different challenges including deplorable infrastructure, lack of drugs, and insufficient personnel and poor wages. Fundamentally, the situation in Katsina state is no different from the gloomy national situation. What measures have the government taken to address this? Conscious of the need to provide indigenes and indeed residents of Katsina State with a quality healthcare system and services at a relatively affordable rate, Governor Aminu Bello Masari since coming on board in 2015 has prioritized healthcare delivery in his administration. Health dominates the governor’s Restoration Agenda that strives to restore the lost glory of the state. In this way, the state government has continued to make healthcare a priority by allocating the third largest chunk of the budget to this critical sector coming behind education and work. Governor Masari – led administration inherited the deplorable conditions of healthcare systems desirous of urgent revamp. Good enough, he is making unflinching efforts to transform the system and reposition it to benefit the people. Part of the measures aimed  at repositioning the sector was the implementation of the primary healthcare under one roof and the conversion of all local government health workers to the primary healthcare Development Agency (PHCDA) To demonstrate his commitment to repositioning this critical sector, Governor Masari has remained committed to building and renovating existing health facilities, and according deserved attention to the welfare of the health personnel. Available statistics indicate that the state expended over N6billion in retooling the primary healthcare centres and general hospitals across the state. As the last count, about eight general hospitals and numerous primary healthcare centres across the state were rehabilitated and upgraded. The Government has also established a drugs management agency to ensure drugs purchased by the government are of not only the required standard, but are also affordable and accessible to the people. In a bid to ensure prompt capturing of data, the administration has also established ICT centres in most hospitals. This also relieved health workers of the stress of handling the analogue method of records keeping. While the hospitals and other healthcare centres continue to get infrastructural uplift with requisite drugs and other equipment, the government also focused on training and retraining of staff, recruitment, promotion, payment of salary and other welfare packages as and when due to the workers in the sector. Findings revealed that over 10,000 health workers and medical doctors, including auxiliary staff, were engaged at various times under by the current administration, to tackle the perennial shortage of manpower across the primary healthcare centres and general hospitals. Our correspondent reports that the governor approved the recruitment of 13 nursing tutors, 15 midwife educators and one lecturer to boost the workforce at the school of nursing and midwifery, and the school of health technology. Interestingly, the state government also sponsored 18 other health educators to pursue postgraduate diplomas in nursing education. Others are about four on sponsorship for degrees in nursing, and 11 on sponsorship for masters’ degrees in nursing. There are also 3 persons who are currently undergoing PhD in health related courses on the state government’s scholarship, all in a bid to provide the needed human resource for the school of nursing and midwifery to make it effective in the training of new health workers. In its effort to provide healthcare to civil servants who spent between 35 to 45 per cent of their consolidated income on healthcare yearly, the state government through the National Insurance Healthcare Scheme, (NHIS), set up formal and informal structures to make healthcare accessible and affordable to its citizens. The state currently has a vibrant health insurance scheme, the Katsina State Contributory Healthcare Management Agency (KTSCHMA), designed to reduce the out of pocket health expenses of persons working in both the formal and informal sector of the state economy. As at the last count, no fewer than 288, 675 civil servants have enrolled in the health scheme in the state. While the informal sector targeted people without salary, to access free healthcare services across the state. These category of people were reached through their various community leaders, associations, groups and traditional rulers and have started enrolling on the scheme. Speaking to our correspondent, the director-general of the KTSCHMA, Muhammed Tukur Ibrahim said about 62 per cent of the targeted population have been captured under the scheme in the State. “The two Emirates of Daura and Katsina, were used to identify the beneficiaries for the scheme, through their district heads, village heads and religious leaders that the people were reached and registered. “About 422 healthcare facilities were accredited to provide healthcare services to the people” he said adding, “We have the primary healthcare services which is the gateway for the secondary healthcare delivery in the state. “Before a patient falls sick, his money has already been deposited in the hospital he chose, except for that 10 per cent payment for the value of drugs’’.  