A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the deputy governor of Plateau State, Prof. Sonny Tyoden, has joined the 2023 governorship election in the state. Tyoden made this disclosure while declaring his interest to contest the governorship election in 2023 at the party secretariat in Jos. The deputy governor said as a co-driver of the Rescue Administration led by Barr. Simon Lalong, he can proudly declare that the Rescue team has redefined governance and the socioeconomic and political development of the state. According to him, “My aspiration is partly motivated by the burning desire to sustain and possibly expand the frontiers of the legacies of the Rescue Administration in the state. “It is common knowledge that Plateau State is a microcosm of the larger Nigerian society in the sense that it is characterised by the same social pluralism such as ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic diversity,” he said. He argued that governing a state that is as diverse as Plateau State requires someone with a good sense of tact, strategy and critical thinking. Tyoden, who said the Rescue Administration has successfully done that, noted that the  next administration has to improve on it in order to bring about unity and harmony among the diverse groups in the state. He said the ability to overcome the challenge of unity and integration in the Plateau State, will lay the foundation for good governance. “Most of my working life has been in the University system where I rose to become the vice chancellor of the prestigious University of Jos between 2006 and 2011. I came on board at the time the University community was deeply polarised along different tendencies and had nearly crippled the administration of the University.” He further stressed “With all sense of humility, I can say so far, I have been the most celebrated vice chancellor of the University. I could not have done this alone but I provided strategic leadership towards this end. This same experience can be used to build a Plateau State that is socially cohesive, politically stable, economically prosperous and culturally integrated”. The former vice chancellor of the University of Jos also said Plateau State has come a long way in the trajectories of development. “These ethical principles underwrite our administration and I will remain faithful to them to drive governance under my leadership. Accordingly, we will run an all- inclusive government that reflects the social diversity of the state. Youth, women and persons living with disability will be accorded the highest consideration in the composition of government”.