This is not the best of times for Nigerian football fans following the failure of the Super Eagles to qualify for Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup after losing the ticket to West African arch rivals, Black Stars of Ghana. The football fans, who have endured a lot of pain in the country in the last two months, including sleeping at the fuel stations, lack of power, insecurity and high cost of living, were hoping on the Eagles to put a smile on their faces and ease their suffering with a ticket to join the other 31 teams in Qatar later this year for the global football showpiece, but that hope was dashed as they watched Ghanaians run away with the ticket on away goal advantage after the match ended 1-1 at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. Ghana shocked the vociferous Nigerian fans when Arsenal’s man, Thomas Partey, unleashed a shot from 20 yards past goalkeeper Francis Uzoho into the net for the first goal of the match. That early goal condemned Super Eagles to a 1-1 aggregate defeat to the disappointment of their home fans. Nigeria equalised after 22 minutes through a William Troost-Ekong penalty but the Black Stars held on as Eagles struggled to create chances in the second half. Though the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has tendered an unreserved apology to the people of Nigeria for the failure of the Eagles, the apology is insignificant and unacceptable as the circumstances that led to the failure must be disentangled for Nigeria’s football to move forward. NFF general secretary, Dr Mohammed Sanusi, in his apology acknowledged the enormous support of government and the good people of Nigeria who turned out in their numbers at the stadium. “There was nothing the team needed that was lacking. The government provided necessary support; the NFF put all logistics in place with the active support of the Sports Ministry and; Nigerians turned out en- masse to support the team. The truth is that we left nothing to chance. It is sad that things turned out the way they did,” Sanusi said. Football is no doubt the only tool for unity where diverse Nigerians freely and seamlessly interface without recourse to religious and ethnic background. This tool has been arrogantly abused and destroyed by the NFF leadership in the last few years. Stakeholders who genuinely invested time and energy in the game to consolidate on past gains made by Nigeria in the 1980s and 90s were schemed out of the system. The vacillation of NFF’s leadership under Amaju Pinnick cost Nigeria the World Cup. When the news broke late last year that a certain Portuguese Jose Paseiro would be the new head coach of the Super Eagles to replace Gernot Rohr, it was greeted with mixed reactions for reasons that the time was too short for the 2021 AFCON finals in Cameroon. It was on this basis that Austin Eguavoen was announced as interim coach to lead Nigeria to that championship. Eguavoen only led the team to Cameroon as a stop-gap measure and was to return to his position as the NFF technical director. So, it was clear that NFF was not in support of Eguavoen to guide the team in the World Cup playoff against Ghana after some questions were raised about his tactical prowess following the Round 16 AFCON defeat by Tunisia. But Pinnick and his men at the NFF were not forthcoming as it was revealed that there was no pre-contract negotiation with Paseiro. In our considered opinion, there will not be any positive progress in Nigeria’s football if there is no amendment to the section of the NFF status that prevents ‘outsiders’ from seeking the position of NFF presidency. As it is now, not even Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, with all his money and passion for football, is qualified to contest for NFF president. Even former footballers like Kanu Nwankwo, Segun Odegbami and others can not come in as NFF president because they are not members of the executive committee. The position is reserved for only the mediocre who have smuggled their ways into the top echelon of Nigerian football. The likes of Samuel Eto’o have taken over in Cameroon and they are making headway, while our own ex-internationals are restricted to playing novelty matches or making commentary. In the face of this capitulation to Ghana in our own backyard, the government must feel compelled to rethink some of its sports policies, especially as it relates to football. Sports across the globe is a multi-billion dollar business. Nigeria must tap into it by first doing away with the presently dominant Father Christmas mentality. Businesses ought to be encouraged to take over sports financing. That is one way of eliminating the pervasive corruption in the sector where administrators feel that they do not have to account for budgetary allocations.  