The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), has intercepted 101 parcels of Cocaine concealed in eight children duvets at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, (MMIA) Ikeja, Lagos. NDLEA spokesperson, Femi Babafemi, who confirmed the arrests, said the illicit drug was brought into the country by a 52-year-old Brazilian returnee, Akudirinwa Hilary Uchenna, who hails from Oru East local government area of Imo State. Uchenna was arrested on Saturday, Apri 9 at the D-Arrival Hall of the Lagos Airport upon his return from Sao Paulo, Brazil via Doha aboard Qatar Airline flight, while the 101 parcels of the class A drug with a gross weight of 13.2 kilogram were recovered from his only check-in bag. During preliminary interview, Uchenna, who claimed to be a carpenter, confessed that he was to be paid N5million for trafficking the drug after successfully delivering the consignment in Lagos. In a related development, big pellets of skunk concealed in detergent containers have been intercepted at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, (AIIA) Enugu. A 37-year-old South African returnee, Ezekwesili Afamefune, brought in the consignment weighing 730grams aboard Ethiopian Airline flight from Johannesburg, South Africa via Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Ezekwesili is from Awka south local government area of Anambra State. In Edo State, a 24-year-old drug dealer, Christian John, was arrested by NDLEA operatives in Egbeta, Ovia North East LGA for selling assorted illicit drugs which include sachets of drugged Milo beverage, cannabis sativa, swinol and tramadol tablets, while in Zamfara state, one Chibuzor Uba, 30, was arrested on Friday, April 8 with 1,955 ampules of pentazocine at Kaura Namoda area of the State. A cross-border drug trafficker, Stanley Chibuzor, 21, was on Friday, April 8 arrested by officers of the Marine Unit of NDLEA stationed at Oron beach, Oron, Akwa Ibom State. The suspect, who hails from Ihiala, Anambra State, was nabbed with 11,190 tablets of Tramadol during the outward clearance of passengers traveling to Cameroon. In Ondo State, a drug dealer who produces and sells skuchies, Oluwaseun Agboola, 25, was arrested on Thursday, April 7, at his Igoba, Second Gate, Akure residence where 73 bottles of skuchies weighing 77kg stocked in his kitchen were recovered. Skuchies are usually a mixture of Tramadol, Cannabis sativa, Codeine, Black Currant (popularly called Zobo) and water.