Youths from the Southern part of Kaduna State, on Thursday, purchased expression of interest and nomination forms for Jagaba Adams Jagaba to contest the Kaduna South senatorial seat on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The youths were drawn from among over 300 Southern Kaduna people, whose the three-time House of Representatives member facilitated their appointments with the federal government agencies. According to the youths, they purchased the forms for Jagaba because they also wanted other people to benefit if he gets into the Senate. Presenting the forms to the Director General of the Jagaba For Senate 2023 organisations, Hon Yusuf Katoh, one of the youths, Adamgbe Danladi Williams, said they are not politicians but wanted the best for Southern Kaduna. “We did this not because Jagaba asked us to do it. In fact, we are going to print posters and mount billboards in strategic locations of Southern Kaduna. “We want the best for our people and we are testimony of Jagaba’s achievements in Southern Kaduna. He facilitated the employment of over 300 Southern Kaduna youths in federal government agencies. “If Jagaba can do that as a House of Representatives member, we believe many people will benefit if he becomes a Senator. We are doing this not because Jagaba don’t have the money to buy the forms and mount billboards, we are only appreciating him for giving us lives and directions,” Williams said. Speaking, the Director General of the Jagaba For Senate 2023, Hon. Katoh expressed confidence that with the gesture shown by the youths, many people will support the Jagaba aspiration. “We are happy that as a House of Representatives member, Jagaba was able to facilitate the employment of over 300 youths from Southern Kaduna. This is apart from other numerous things he did including sterling performances. “We are happy with what you have done and we pray that God will elevate all of you in your places of work. With what you have done, it shows that you want progress and development of Southern Kaduna. I am assuring you that God will take Jagaba to the Senate,” Katoh stated. Speaking on behalf of her husband, the wife of Hon. Jagaba, Mrs Celina Jagaba, said she was happy because the youths were able to appreciate what her husband have done to them. According to her, the gesture of the youths showed clearly of their willingness to work towards ensuring that others also benefited. She thanked the youths for purchasing the forms for her husband and encouraged them to work hard towards ensuring that Southern Kaduna get better. Also, former chairman of PDP, Kagarko local government area, Alhaji Shehu Tafarki, who gave a breakdown of how Senators emerged from Zone 3 since 1999, said it was time for Jagaba to go to the red chamber. “Jagaba was in Jos, serving the people through the word of God. Being a son of an astute politician, Jagaba Senior, Adams returned home and became a vice chairman of our local government. He was chairman of our local government, Secretary of PDP in Kaduna State and a three-term House of Representatives member. God has been with him and we want him to be at the Senate in 2023. He has been serving the people, he will continue to serve for us to have a better society,” Tafarki said.