A sudden death is an unanticipated death. Though sudden deaths have different causes, they are all unexpected and consequently unanticipated. The senior special assistant to the FCT minister, on health, Dr Ejike Orji, identified the things that can lead to sudden collapse and death as mostly metabolic and cardiac, adding that COVID-19 is also contributing. “When I say metabolic, I am looking at things like diabetes.  Somebody can suddenly die from diabetes if your blood sugar goes up so high. You can go into coma and if it is not corrected immediately, the person will die, the other one is hypoglycemia–when there is low blood glucose in a person’s body. “There is also what we call cardiac event; if somebody has had hypertension for about ten years without knowing and not doing anything about it, it will affect the heart, the kidney and the brain. The one that will cause sudden death is if the blood pressure shoots up so high and an artery bursts in the vein, the person can die immediately. The other one is if the blood pressure is high and the person has cholesterol deposited in the artery, it will deposit so high that the person’s blood, the one supplying to the heart, they can suddenly cloth and close and the blood supply to the heart, if the artery blocks, that person can die suddenly. “The other thing that is causing sudden death recently is COVID 19. People may have COVID 19 without knowing it, even when they have very severe symptom, they will still be saying is malaria, they will be in denial, they won’t go to see a doctor and  the coronal virus will start from the nasal until, it gets into the lungs and once people start desaturating, you will find out that within 24 hours, their blood oxygen will fall so low that it will not sustain life and they will die. Most of the people who die from coronavirus die due to that. “The other thing that can cause sudden death is when people have Upper GI bleeding from peptic ulcer and the person did not manage it well and takes a drug that can cause massive bleeding. All of these can be found out if you do a comprehensive check every year once you are above 40,  then every two years. Orji, however, said that health insurance has a big role to play as it makes it easy for a person to access healthcare because it’s a pool resources scheme that will make you if you have a slight headache, you will like to go to the hospital since you know you are not going to pay as you have already paid the premium for the year.