The Islamist State of the West African Province (ISWAP) terrorist group operating in the Lake Chad Basin, has intensified the recruitment of children as fighters after suffering devastating defeats from the Nigerian Military. The recruitment and use of child-soldiers by the Boko Haram faction of Jama’tu Ahlis Sunna Lidda’awati wal-Jihad (JAS) was widely known. However, its rival faction, has been doing the same across the shores of the Lake Chad following the recent mass elimination of ISWAP top leaders and fighters in some of their hideouts by the Nigerian troops. Zagazola Makama, a counter-insurgency expert and security analyst in the Lake Chad, said that other factors which led to the desperate recruitment drive included ISWAP clashes with JAS Boko Haram which triggered surrendering of more than 50,000 members to the Nigerian authorities as well as other factors which led to mass desertion of the fighters. The history of child soldiery began in 2016 when children between age three and above were conscripted right under an influence of a cleric who disguised under the pretext of teaching them Arabic education. They will later undergo combat and non-combat training in the group’s radicalisation camps known as “Darul Quran”. In the first instance, they are only sent on suicide missions but later
they began using them as combatant fighters. According to intelligence reports, the ISWAP terrorists through the “Darul Ilm and Darul Qur’an” Institutions have trained hundreds of child soldiers through its subsidiary known as “Albahrul Islam”, an ISIS supported institute in Somalia. READ ALSO: ISWAP Leader, Sani Shuwaram, Feared Killed By NAF Airstrikes So far, they graduated more than 2,000 children militants from the African continent who underwent combat, non-combat operations, bomb making, martial arts as well as other weapon handling technical trainings for six months. In January 2022, the institute established training camps and office in Kurnawa, Arge, Metele and Tumbum Allura with its head office at Kayowa in Abadam local government area of Borno State. In February 2022, more than 200 of the newly graduated child soldiers from Lake Chad were deployed as mercenaries to Mali and Niger to form alliance with the Islamic State of the Greater Sahel to wage campaign of terror under the supervision of the ISIS Central Command. Major General Christopher Musa Musa, the Theartre Commander, Operation Hadin Kai, said that the concription of children by Boko Haram/ISWAP was one of the driving force of attrocities. Gen. Musa said that the recruitment of under-aged children was a war crime under international humanitarian law. He said that the recruitment of children is also destroying the society and robbing them of their future, noting that women were used as sex slaves while the children were forced to commit attrocities against their wish. “When we arrest them sometimes, they spent three days without knowing what they are diong because they are being administered under the influence of hard drugs. This was why they are not afraid to die. So even if you shoot a Boko Haram or ISWAP, he doesn’t feel the pain immediately,” he added. Since 2009, Boko Haram has killed 350,000 mostly women and children in North-East Nigeria and displaced over three million in Adamawa, Yobe, and the restive Borno State.