National chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, yesterday decried the level of carnage in the country caused by terrorists, adding that Nigerians can’t travel by road, air, rail. He however assured that a PDP-led federal government will rescue the country, re-unite the people and put an end to the carnage going on in the country. Ayu made the declaration yesterday at Zaki-Biam, Ukum Local Government Area of Benue state, during the burial of a Speaker of the House of Representatives in Second Republic, Rt. Hon. Benjamin Akaai Chaha, a statement signed by his special adviser on communication and strategy, Simon Imobo-Tswam, stated. According to the statement Ayu regretted the collapse of security in the country, and the attendant bloodshed, saying Nigeria has never had it so bad. According to Ayu, “The task before a new PDP Federal Government will be to re-unite the people, put an end to the incessant bloodshed and restart the development of the country.” Speaking further in his funeral oration, the former senate president said it was shameful that Nigeria was being cut off physically from the centre by terrorists. His words: “It’s a shame that Nigeria is being cut off physically by terrorists. Nigerians can’t travel by road. They can’t travel by rail. And they can’t travel by air, either. Our airports are now prime targets. “PDP must return peace and security to this country. There is too much carnage under the current administration. The new PDP government will do everything possible to make this carnage stops.” He described the late elder statesman as a “mentor, torch-bearer and shining star” who believed in unity and the politics of development. Ayu went on: “He was a teacher and  torchbearer who mentored many. And in politics, he was a shining-light who opened the door for the younger generations of Tiv elite.” “He inspired us to look up, to dream big and today, we too have become leaders. As torchbearers also, we must inspire the younger generations to dream big and contribute their quota in making Benue and Nigeria great,” he added. Harping on united action, Ayu said it was incumbent on the political elite in the state to close ranks and work together, stressing: “If we are united, there is nothing that we can’t do; and even our enemies will fail in their evil designs.” He urged the people to uphold the virtues that Chaha held dear while alive, and prayed to God to grant the departed eternal rest and comfort the family. 