T he path to March 26 APC national convention had been long and tortuous, from the time it unceremoniously ousted the combative National Working Committee led by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Many people doubted that APC will be able to hold its convention or if it did, it could be successful and signal an end to its problems of internal schism. In the event, the convention turned out to be a big success and the election of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the national chairman was not only smooth but has set the party on the path to genuine amends. Late last year, APC’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee [CECPC] led by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni fortunately for the party, the Mai Mala Buni had appointed Adamu as chairman of a national reconciliation committee. The task was urgent because following ward, local government and state congresses that it conducted, many APC state chapters were enveloped in crises and factional executives emerged in several states. It was a very good trial run, because it enabled Adamu to see just how intricate the problem was. As the committee went about its job traversing the length and breadth of the country, many became convinced that added to experience and maturity, Senator Adamu’s sense of justice, fairness and audacity to stand for the truth with diplomatic tact would go a long way in not only resolving the many conflicts within the party. Many recalled how, as Governor of Nasarawa State, Adamu organised a smooth transition and won elections to go to the Senate without rancour and has been able to manage all the state governors that came after him. Widespread regard for his choice ultimately won President Muhammadu Buhari’s endorsement. The eruption that some expected to follow the convention due to varied interests however thinned out as it became clear that Senator Adamu was going to be the choice of the party. Endorsement by the President also helped as initial protests from co-contestants died down as they gradually began to withdraw from the race. As the party delegates converged at Eagle Square for the convention on March 26, it was more or less an affirmation for Senator Adamu as all the processes went on without rancour until he was sworn in as the national chairman of APC. Standing on the podium on that day, Adamu pledged to heal the wounds in the party. He said, “We shall effect lasting reconciliation among our members and we shall go into the next general elections as a strong and united party. I offer my hands of friendship to all our members. I want to assure you that my colleagues and myself will run an open door policy to all members of the party.” He added: “We need to renew our faith in our party and its leadership at all levels in order to herald a new dawn. We need to commit to the resolution of our crisis within the confines of our party constitution. “We must resist the temptation to blow every minor personal disagreement into a major party crisis. It is time for us to do things differently. When we quarrel, we open our flanks to our rival political parties that are only too eager to exploit them for their own benefit.” A little over a week since he took over as chairman, it is clear that the expectations of party leaders would be met as the new national chairman has hit the ground running. Within a week, he caused the national secretariat to be reconfigured in such a way that the office of the national chairman would be more accessible to the people. He has also doused the tension within the party with his intervention and consultation with stakeholders. He has re-established contact with the top leaders of the party in public office and has been assured of their cooperation and support. The national chairman has also sent signals across that the party would be just to all members. What’s more, he met sometime last week with the UK wing of the APC in Diaspora. And he assured that the NWC will work with them to address their concerns. Also, at about 9pm on Wednesday, 6th April, he met with former governors who are members of the party. They’re concerned about the overbearing disposition of their respective state governors in the party, and needed his assurance about strengthening internal democracy within the APC. Again, when he was introduced to the President on Thursday, 7th, the President tasked him to be both fair and firm. He has also gotten endorsements from the top contenders for the national chairmanship seat. From his successor in Nasarawa State, Senator Tanko Al-Makura to Saliu Mustapha, Senator Sani Musa and Senator George Akume, they have all pledged to work with him in the interest of the party. However the big task for him is weeks away as the party begins the processes towards the conduct of its primaries. This task, especially for the presidential primaries, is more arduous considering the array of heavy weights in the race but much more the fact that the incumbent won’t be concluding his constitutionally guaranteed tenure. This situation which throws the race open for all the contestants would require a lot of tact and experience to manage the pre and post primaries frictions. “That will be the major task he has to deal with. How he manages the conflicting interests, especially after the primaries will be a critical period for him. However one would imagine that his wealth of experience in Nigeria’s political terrain will be a major advantage for him. Also his maturity will come to bear as well,” Ibekwe Erondu, a political analyst and lawyer stated. This point was stressed by a presidential aspirant and Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, recently at the seminar in Abuja. Throwing light on the strategic reason Adamu emerged APC national chairman, Bello said “APC is the party to beat, APC is the party that will be in the next government after President Muhammadu Buhari. APC wants to win all elections, APC is a party that is strategic. “As a party we must be stable, as a party we must be solid, as a party we need that person or leadership that has historical memory of politics or the evolution of politics and governance in Nigeria. “And as such, we require such an experienced personality, irrespective of where he or she comes from. Forget about what is put out there as whether zoning or no zoning, what is important is who is that man who will be the leader and put the party together and that quality was found in Senator Abdulahi Adamu. And the party will not want anything that is going to disrupt any process that was going to make him emerge,” he said. For Senator Adamu, it could be said that the morning that heralds his new position as national chairman, has all the positive signals for a bright future for APC. 