Justice Taiwo Taiwo of a Federal High Court in Abuja, has dismissed the case filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) against Cross Rivers State Governor Ben Ayade over his defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The court held that Governor Ayade’s defection from the PDP to the (APC) is not enough ground to remove him from office. “This court has no power to declare vacant the seat of the governor and deputy, ” Justice Taiwo said. The court in its ruling held that ‘’The point must be made that it is not the duty of the court to make law. If a gap is disclosed, the remedy lies in amending the Act”. Relying on a recent judgment of the Court of Appeal in Enugu State on defection of elected officers, the court refused to declare the seats of the governor and is deputy vacant. Justice Taiwo departed from his earlier judgment, holding on to the decision of the Court of Appeal delivered on April 1 to the effect that defection is not an offence under the Nigerian constitution for now. The judge held that governors and their deputies can only be removed from office in line with sections 180, 188 and 189 of the constitution which stipulated that elective office holders can only be removed from office on account of death, resignation or impeachment. Justice Taiwo that since defection is not one of the Constitutional provisions, no court has power to insert such into the Supreme Law. He however agreed that defection from a winning party to a losing one is immoral and improper. Before the court delivered its judgement at the last adjourned date, Justice Taiwo asked the lead counsel in the matter to address the court on the implication of the recent judgment of the Court of Appeal, Enugu division in respect of the defection of Governor David Umahi and his deputy from the PDP to APC. Responding, counsel to PDP, Emmanuel Ukala, SAN, insisted that the subject matter, issues raised for determination, interpretation of certain provisions of the constitution in the cases of Umahi and Ayade were completely different. Ukala said the prayers of Umahi at the Abakaliki High Court were different from what the PDP were seeking at the Federal High Court Abuja. On his part, counsel to APC, Mike Ozekhome SAN, told the court that the case decided at the Court of Appeal, Enugu division is same with the instant case at the Federal High Court in Abuja. Ozekhome pointed out that reliefs 12 and 13 in Ayade’s case are same with reliefs two of Umahi’s case in Enugu. “The entire case boils down to defection and the issue is whether a Governor and his deputy after being sworn in can be removed from office,’’ he argued. In a reaction to the judgement, APC supporters storm the streets of Calabar metropolis and its environs to celebrate the governor’s victory on the legal turf. They sang songs such as “We believe in Ayade; Ayade is not the first to defect from the opposition party to ruling party; In Ayade we stand, he has helped many to quit poverty. “ The group said. Also, a support group for Prince Bassey Otu, a one-time senator who represented Cross River South senatorial district of Cross River State at  upper chamber of the national assembly  who convened at the Kolanut centre Barracks Road Calabar burst into jubilation upon hearing news of Ayade’s Victory at the Abuja federal High Court, led by stakeholders like Emmanul Ironbar, stated  that  they were solidly behind Gov. Ayade. “Ayade took poverty away from our lives. We got jobs and took us out of poverty,” the group said.