At least 10 people have been killed by gunmen in a mid-night attack on an annual traditional festival in Chando Zerreci village, Bassa local government area of Plateau State. LEADERSHIP investigation revealed that 19 other persons sustained injuries during the attack. According to an eyewitness, the gunmen suspected to be herdsmen launched the attack while the Irigwe annual festival ‘Zerreci’, the festival that will usher them into the farming season was ongoing . The national publicity secretary of Irigwe Youth Movement, Comrade Lawrence Zongo, confirmed the attack in a statement made available to journalists in Jos, the state capital. The statement reads: “The National Leadership of Irigwe Youth Movement (IYM) condemned the attack of the Irigwe people on her annual ritual festival ‘Zerreci’, the festival that will usher them into the farming season.” The group alleged that its members were attacked by herdsmen late Saturday night at about 11pm at Chando Zerreci in Bassa LGA. Zongo further added that 10 persons were killed and 19 people survived gunshot wounds and some were undergoing medical treatment at Enos Hospital Miango, while others were receiving treatment in Jos. The statement further called on the government to come to their rescue. “The Nigerian government has a responsibility to promote and protect human rights, including the right to life, and a duty to protect civilians from attacks by taking effective measures to prevent and deter attacks on the Rigwe people. “The government must as a matter of urgency investigate the attack in Irigwe land and bring the perpetrators to justice and ensure families and other victims are adequately compensated. “Brutal attacks on Rigwe communities are becoming rampant and frequent. This is unacceptable. The government must take more concrete steps to protect lives and property across Rigwe chiefdom and neighboring communities. “The Irigwe nation further pleaded to International community to come to the aid of the people and to support them with humanitarian aid,” Zongo said. Meanwhile, the Plateau State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Uba Ogaba, confirmed the attack, adding that the command had mobilised armed officers to the place to restore normalcy. According to him, the state police command was on top of the situation.