It’s so very painfully unfortunate some of the happenings around us, especially in a society that claims to be literate, social, enlightened and Godfearing. I have written severally repeatedly on this column  about the dangers of domestic violence in our society and the fervent need to overcome the challenge. We have lost a lot of precious lives to the animalistic behaviour of some persons who cannot handle untoward human situations but always,primitively  use violence to settle scores The story of our illustrious daughter of zion, exceptionally gifted gospel singer Osinachi suffice. So much to write in remembrance but not to day until I am armed with the full information of all that transpired. But for now, let me reproduced this for the caution, lesson and consumption of everyone,especially those who practice domestic violence and those who cannot resist the evil temptation of it. This is the story of a man who, out of stupid and foolish impatience, ended the life of his dear wife in brazen circumstances that are clearly avoidable. Pls read and learn.  Too Late To Apologise “Where are you coming from by this time of the night? He thundered. “Honey you won’t believe what happened today. Oh God I’m so tired right now.” She replied as she yawned. “I asked where you are coming from and you are vomiting rubbish. Does that answer my question? Are you trying to pretend you don’t know there’s no food in this house?” He said fuming. “Honey I’m sorry but you should hear me out first. I….”Before she could complete that sentence, a thunderous slap kissed her left cheek and she passed out on the sofa. “Get my dinner ready, after that you will tell me why you switched off your phone.” He said as he walked towards the bedroom. When he noticed there was no response from his wife, he was infuriated. He rushed towards her to unleash the rest of the demon in him but on getting close to her, he discovered she has passed out. He was shocked. Cold sweat appeared on his forehead and raced down his temple. Fear gripped him. He began to panic. He dashed into the bedroom, picked his car key and darted out of the house to open his car. He rushed back into the house almost immediately, lifted his wife and headed to his car. As he made to start the ignition, the car key fell off his hand. He was visibly shaking. Picking up the car key proved to be a difficult task to him as he couldn’t get hold of it. He succeeded but had to use both hands to start the car ignition. His shaky hands turned against him. His heart was racing. He couldn’t hold the steering firmly but he managed to drive his way to the hospital. Getting to the hospital, he alerted the nurses. His wife was rushed into the emergency ward. He became restless. After about five minutes, his doctor appeared to him. “Good evening Mr Collins.” “Good evening doctor, how’s my wife?” He said with great panic. “Your wife was here few hours ago.She brought your mum to the hospital before going home and if she had been ten minutes late, your mum would have died, She wanted to alert you but her phone battery went flat.I would have called you but she said *she will notify you when she get home. What really happened? The doctor asked. “Doctor, is my wife okay?” He asked with teary eyes. “Your mum is in the other ward Mr Collins.” The doctor replied. He couldn’t hide his impatience as he gripped the doctor’s shirt. “What about my wife doctor? Is she okay?” The doctor managed to pull his hands off his shirt before letting the cat out of the bag. “I’m sorry Mr Collins, your wife couldn’t make it. She’s dead.  He was shocked. Cold shivers ran down his spine. He began to shake. Hot tears welled up his eyes and as he made an attempt to speak,they raced down his cheeks. Liquid fluids leaked out of his nostrils and wetted his lips. His shirt became drenched with sweat. He wanted to man up but he couldn’t. He groaned in pain and let out a mad shout. ”Noooooo!!!” But then, it was too late to correct his mistake. He should have heard her first as requested by her. He should have controlled his anger. He shouldn’t have laid his hand on her. He should have been patient with her. He shouldn’t have…. He should have…. But he didn’t. It was too late to apologize. Don’t make such a mistake.SAY NO TO DOMESTIC VIOLENCE!!!* # let love lead# # Stop Fighting# #Stop Domestic Violence#* # Be an Understanding Husband and Wife# The only difference between ANGER and DANGER is D And that D represents DESTRUCTION, DAMAGE AND DEATH. May God always help us to control our emotions rightly. Amen. Somebody somewhere need to read this.  Nigerian Tourism In A Digital Economy Technology and Recalibration of the Global Economy The manner in which our global realities – and economy – have been transforming at the speed of thought in the past two decades, at least, driven by the massive force-field of information and communication technologies, has occasioned sea-changes in the nature of commerce and the wealth of nations. Hence, humanity has not only made huge transitions from the first to the third industrial revolutions – in terms of the production of goods and services, but we are now making rapid advances into the Fourth Industrial Revolution. This is an age that has earned the apt moniker of ‘disruption’, in which the traditional basis of social and economic organisation are being transcended, as artificial intelligence and machine learning take on bigger stakes. These newer systems are equally set to play greater roles in governing the interactions between man and the environment, alongside the way in which resources are husbanded and value created. The way in which tourism is experienced and consumed is a critical component of this newer reality. A shorthand for this complex re-arrangement of the production and access to tourism goods and services is the ‘digital economy’, which is anchored on the technologies of open source systems, data analytics, cloud computing, blockchain, search engines, other cybernetic platforms, and smart devices, all hitched to the Internet (of things) and its infrastructure. Since it took off, the global digital economy has grown in scale and size, getting estimated at a value of $11.5 trillion dollars or about 16 per cent of the worldwide economy, in a report by Oxford Economics in 2016. No doubt, with the increased global convergence around digital channels, especially since the outbreak of the coronavirus in late 2019, this value would have accelerated tremendously to possibly twofold of the earlier figure.  Nigerian Tourism and the Digital Economic Disruption With the traction gained by the digital incursion and its transformation of the Nigerian economy, Oxford Economics has equally calibrated its impacts on tourism in the country as having witnessed a total inflow of $7.9 billion from international and domestic visitors spending. This is a composite of a direct contribution of $2.6 billion to the Nigerian GDP, alongside a ripple effect of indirect and induced impacts. As such, it is noted that the travel and tourism industry in Nigeria constituted 4 per cent of the GDP in 2019 and was responsible for some 3.3 million jobs, before the onslaught of COVID-19. Also, Oxford Economics reveals the extent to which digital content has driven tourism in Nigeria, with 70 per cent of overnight stays being booked through digital platforms in 2019, rising from 55 per cent in 2014, and a 8 per cent net increase in the economy of tourism within the same period. Equally, there were 20 million incremental visitor nights and a $1.1 billion incremental contribution to the GDP in 2019 alone. As the uptake of digital platforms grows, increasing the competitiveness of products and destinations, the potential gains to Nigeria have been projected at the creation of about 74,000 new jobs and 8.5 million incremental overnight stays by 2025. This would be on the back of about a $1 billion cumulative increase in the spending on tourism over a five-year period, benchmarked from 2020.  Tools for Accessing Tourism in the Digital Economy These days, digitalisation has pervaded the entire gamut of the tourism ecosystem – from the points of desire and research about destinations and local experiences, to travel itself, hospitality, local touring, gastronomic rendezvous, and all the associated sectors. The wide sweep of digital innovations has encompassed the entire tourism industry, leading to far-reaching transformations worldwide, and making the World Economic Forum’s Digital Transformation Initiative (DTI) estimate that between 2016 and 2025, tourism would create value in the range of $305 billion. More so, it is claimed that about $100 billion of value will be migrated from traditional sector players to new competitors, while consumers and the entire society will witness benefits valued at about $700 billion from digitally driven tourism. In this regard, many industry actors have been adopting digital assets, which are incorporated into their strategies and operations – thereby linking e-tourism, smart tourism and e-commerce, etc. – as a way of ensuring their competitiveness and relevance. As such, part of the transformations wrought by digital technologies have led to changes in the business model of tourism, which still keeps evolving, and creates not only new forms of revenue, but also value-enhancing opportunities. It has become empowering of the consumer, who is located at the centre of curating his/her experience, out of the range of offerings and choices available to him/her. In stride, the new model has diminished the need for intermediaries (such as the traditional travel and booking agents), although there is the strong indication that tour operators, travel agencies and other tourism sectors enablers will remain, even in the virtual space. Tourism is now facilitated significantly by technology, including the Internet of Things, search and geolocation technologies, while equally enabled by payment platforms and the preponderance of social media for destination marketing. In as much as, in an earlier phase, the tools for drawing attention to the experiences of tourism were through websites, email marketing and search engine optimisation (SEO) on Google, the field has become massively leapfrogged by the predominance of digital applications – much of them mainly used on mobile devices. The raft of global digital tools for accessing tourism and its experiences these days include Tripadvisor; then Airbnb, FlipKey, HomeAway, 9Flats for accommodation; Uber, Gokada, Lyft, Grab, ZipCar, iCarsClub for transportation – which also has subsets comprising touring, that can be requested through apps likes ToursByLocals or Vayable, or Wingly for private flights in Europe. A solutions provider for tracking destinations is WishTrip, which assists with digital maps and trails, live maps, and location based pop ups, etc.  –Chief Folorunsho Coker, the Baba Eto of Yorubaland and Director General of the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation, is the chief marketer of the Nigerian destination. 