Many Manchester United fans aren’t happy about how the team has been performing recently. This is especially the case after the recent match with Liverpool which ended with 4-0 in favor of their opponent. Currently, Manchester United is on the sixth spot of the ladder and is behind 3 points from Arsenal, which is in the fifth place. Following the Red Devils is West Ham with two points less. The top four teams are currently Manchester City, Liverpool, Chelsea, and Tottenham. However, even if United is struggling to secure a spot in the Champions League, fans are still hoping for a miracle. Before you place your bets on the next United matches on sites recommended by www.bettingsites24.ng, let’s have a look at the chances that United will be able to pull this miracle off. Man Utd Manager Rangnick Explains How they Can Still Qualify for the Champions League Before the match with Liverpool, United’s interim manager, Ralf Rangnick, spoke about how the only way that they can qualify for the Champions League is if they win their last six Premier League fixtures. This is why he called on his players to go all out for three points at the recent Anfield match. He said, “It’s up to us. We definitely will travel there tomorrow and try and get three points, this is what it’s all about. It’s about our situation. After the results, we are still in the race for fourth, but to stay in it we have to win almost every game. “We might be the underdogs for most people but if we raise our level we have a chance. You can see other teams are dropping points at the weekend. It’s again about being consistent and at the end, the team will probably finish fourth that is most committed to that.” However, the team did not get the three points that they are hoping for. While Rangnick did say that they need to win all six matches, even after the loss at Anfield, they still stand a small chance to go to the Champions League. If they win all their remaining matches and Tottenham and Arsenal don’t win any, then Man Utd will still go to the Champions League. But it doesn’t take an expert to say that there is a big chance that this could happen. All we can do is wait. Another person who spoke before the recent Anfield match was Liverpool boss, Jurgen Klopp. According to him, his team will make sure that the Red Devils won’t qualify for the upcoming Champions League. Liverpool didn’t disappoint him and didn’t even allow Man Utd to score in the said match. He said, “The Manchester United we will face, they will go for it. They want to go to the Champions League. It will be an intense 90 minutes. We have to make sure they don’t take our points to get there. How’s my relationship with Rangnick? On hold!” New Manchester United Manager The current manager of the team, Rangnick, only stepped in when Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was sacked in November because of the team’s poor performance. Rangnick managing the team was only temporary and it was finally announced who will be managing the team after this season of the Premier League. The football club recently confirmed that Erik ten Hag will be the team’s new manager after the 2021-22 EPL season. Currently, he is the boss at Ajax, and based on reports, Man Utd will be paying Ajax a compensation fee of £1.6 million. It is also understood that he will be bringing his backroom staff with him. Ten Hag spoke about the recent news on Manchester United’s official site. He said, “It is a great honor to be appointed manager of Manchester United and I am hugely excited by the challenge ahead. I know the history of this great club and the passion of the fans, and I am determined to develop a team capable of delivering the success they deserve. “It will be difficult to leave Ajax after these incredible years, and I can assure our fans of my complete commitment and focus on bringing this season to a successful conclusion before I move to Manchester United.” Despite his excitement to be managing the Red Devils, Ten Hag expressed that he wants to ensure that he leaves Ajax on a good note. He said, “I want to finish my time here on a positive note, by winning the league. By doing so, we’ll qualify directly for the Champions League. Ajax belongs there.”  