For the past seven years of this administration, terrorists have been able to gathered huge amount of money from ransom proceeds. They have been able to emboldened themselves and expand frontiers. Many Nigerians, especially women and children have been kidnapped, raped and killed. As if the people in government are not aware of the attrocities, the terrorists have been able to killed more Nigerians than the way the Nigerian security apparatus have killed them in the last three years. The insecurity and the atrocities being carried out by terrorists is enough offense for the national assembly to invite the president to explain why he campaign to tackle insecurity, swore to protect lives and properties but seemed to have been conquered by the terrorists. There is no day Nigerians are not killed and the Senate, which is supposed to checkmate the executive, keep filibustering during plenary. Unfortunately, they only bark but can’t bite and the executive knows that. Despite the so-called cordial relationship enjoyed between the executive and legislative branch, the presidency has ignored more than 60 resolutions from the Senate that can help in tackling insecurity. To make issues worse, despite approving billions in the last year’s supplementary budget for COVID-19 spending and the war against insecurity, the Senate president, the same last year, said with the money they approved for the military, they will tackle insecurity before June 2021. Almost a year now, killings, kidnaping, rapping and attack on communities and travellers have increased in proposition without anyone being held accountable. Worried by the last week Abuja- Kaduna train attack, Senate called on the Nigerian Army and Airforce to, as a matter of urgency, bombard terrorist enclaves with a view to restoring peace and stability in the country. Also, the same call was made following a point of order raised on the continued attacks on communities and public facilities in Kaduna State. The point of order was raised by Senator Uba Sani (Kaduna Central). The lawmaker, noted that terrorists have in recent times stepped up attacks on some communities and public facilities in Kaduna State. According to him, “the latest attacks by these murderous elements took place in some communities in Giwa Local Government, namely Angwan Sarki Yahya, Tashar Shari, Bare-Bari, Tsaunin Natal, Dillalai, Durumi and Jatin Kanwa, all on Yakawada Ward. “Other places affected include Kaya community, Mai kyauro and Fatika. They killed 50 persons and kidnapped 100 people. They also made strategic roads in Giwa Local Government no go areas. “Not done with their devilish acts, they made an attempt to penetrate the Kaduna International Airport. “Although the attack was foiled by vigilant security operatives, one person lost his life,” Sani said adding that when people were trying to come to grips with a week-long wanton destruction of lives and property, the terrorists struck again. Also know that on a daily basis, people are being killed at their sleep in South Kaduna and Niger State communities. The attacks by terrorists on a Kaduna bound train carrying about 970 people around Kateri – Rijana axis in Kaduna, just a few kilometers to the Rigasa Train Station in Igabi Local Government Area of the State brought international disgrace. No one has been invited by the Senate. This among others shows clearly how the government has abandoned its responsibility. It was not the first time terrorists were making attempt on the train and nothing was done. Even when government official open up that they know where the camps of the terrorists are and their phone numbers, the attrocities keep happening. Doesn’t this amount to impeachment process? Weak institutions and self serving politicians keep putting the lives of millions of Nigerians in danger. The lawmakers who should checkmate the activities of the executive keep filibustering. The internal community must rise up and help the helpless in Nigeria. The international community should come to the aid of the defenseless Nigerians. The international community should know that the vicious activities of the terrorists and the inability of various government to put a stop to it or atleast, reduce the vicous circle in the last seven years has put a lie to President Muhammadu Buhari’s ascersion that he is capable of tackling insecurity in Nigeria.