Imo State attorney-general and commissioner for justice, Chief Cyprian Akaolisa, has raised the alarm over the activities of arsonists in the state even as the arsonists have razed down his house and that of his father for the second time. In a Facebook post yesterday, titled: “A clarion call to all – Let us in one voice condemn the widespread modern-day killings, arson and anarchy in our land”, Akaolisa warned on the dangers of continuous silence. He said the arsonists codenamed “Umu Oma (good children) yesterday attacked his country home in Obibi, Awo-Idemili, Orsu LGA of Imo State for no just cause, including that of his aged father, saying that it was a house his father built personally, the “life-toil of an aged man”, and razed down both houses completely. He said, “I wish to put on record that my family house is completely destroyed. This was after they used a truck to cart all the properties: fridges, TVs, bed/foams, generator sets and other household materials. What are my crimes, who did I offend? And what were my father’s offences? And I dare ask, where is the Igbo spirit? This is a direct affront on the aku ruo ulo spirit. Who will invest in Ala Igbo nay Orsu LGA today under this type of atmosphere?” Other crimes include the sacking of police and carting away of all the armories in Orsu LGA, the kidnapping and killing of well-to-do individuals and security operatives, which has resulted in attendant scare within the local government daily. Specifically, the commissioner stated that the gunmen under the guise of freedom fighters had resorted to extortion from mourning families saying “Today, these gunmen (Codenamed Umu Oma, under the guise of freedom fighters) have continued to demand huge sums of money from mourning families who wish to bury their loved ones and the likes. It is now strictly business! These gunmen have almost made a god of themselves, killing and cannibalizing at will, in my area but believe me, they will not succeed with our voices up and collaborative efforts.” While he queried the rationale behind the destructions he said, “Where is the Igbo spirit, mnne m (my people)? It is unfortunate that majority of those who foment these troubles are not indigenous to Orsu but have garnered collaborators and enablers among the locals either through fear, persuasion, financial inducements and made to swear to devilish oats of secrecy.” A pained Akaolisa called for concerted efforts to end the siege in Orsu local government area and the liberation of the people who are worse hit by the economic downturn occasioned by the ravaging insecurity. To the supporters of the carnage, he called for an introspection, saying, “For the enablers and cheerers, it is time for the needed retrospect, soul-searching to interrogate the process so far by weighing the gains and losses.” Other places attacked by the arsonists include the Orsu council headquarters, the house of Chief Prince Ford Ozumba, commissioner for labour, employment, and productivity; the house of the member representing Orsu state constituency, Hon Ekene Nnodumele and other political leaders within Orsu local government area.