Following the launch of the Risk, Resilience and Regulatory Laboratory (R3Lab) initiative in Lagos on Wednesday, the commissioner for insurance/CEO, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Mr. Sunday Thomas said, the initiative was conceived to tackle evolving risks in African economic space. The initiative, which was unveiled by Financial Sector Deepening Africa (FSD Africa) in partnership with NAICOM, and other stakeholders and funded by UK Aid, is expected to transform Africa’s financial markets, and deliver programmes where the potential for impact is greatest. Thomas said, the setting up of the R3Lab was birthed through their mutual interest in maximsing the untapped potential of the African insurance industry and exploring ways in which collaboration, technology and insurance supervisory capacity building is capable of not only mitigating the impact of specific challenges experienced in the regulatory environment but also improve the regulatory effectiveness of African insurance supervisory authorities. According to him, “we are all aware of the evolving risks in the Africa economic space such as climate change, pandemics, digitalisation, inadequate understanding and lack of confidence in the insurance sector and the need for new strategies to enhance the capabilities of African insurance supervisory authorities to effectively regulate and protect insurance policyholders.” R3Lab, he stressed, offers a three-tiered approach towards creating an enabling regulatory environment and equipping the regulator with sound, proportionate and fit-for-purpose practices. Risk, Resilience, and Regulation, he pointed out, are the key entry points for the R3Lab to build the technical capacity and skills of the regulator on innovation and sustainable insurance. The R3Lab will facilitate the design of customised capacity-building programmes and set up peer to peer exchange platforms, comprehensive learning toolkits, a resource center for data collection and reporting and topical taskforces and forums for insurance supervisors in Africa, he stated. “I am pleased to confirm that this platform is the third joint-initiative that has been birthed through FSD Africa’s partnership with NAICOM. “The first was FSD Africa’s ongoing support in the review of existing regulations including identifying and articulating the key steps, framework(s), and tools required by NAICOM for Risk-Based Capital (RBC). FSD Africa in furtherance of its support to NAICOM and the Nigerian insurance industry, officially launched the second project, the BimaLab Insurtech Accelerator in February 2022, a platform that selects, coaches and mentors insurtech firms, granting these firms access to FSD Africa BimaLab Grant Fund in developing innovative business solutions focused on solving compelling economic or social problems,” he pointed out. He believes the commissioning of these projects and platforms, will create an enabling environment for the development of insurance products which address the day-to-day challenges experienced by Nigerians in the face of environmental related risks. Earlier, the chief executive officer, FSD Africa, Mark Napier, said his firm believes healthy financial markets are the foundation of a fair and thriving economy, noting that, it supports breakthrough ideas that will transform Africa’s financial markets, and deliver programmes where the potential for impact is greatest. Stating  that Africa can unlock new pathways to prosperity and resilience, while helping the world realise the promise of the Paris Agreement and tackle the dual crises of climate change and biodiversity loss, he added that, “we believe that a financial system that is acceptable, stable and transparent, can also help to create the condition for a fair and sustainable future.