There are many reasons why many people absolutely love football. On one hand, it is possible to see some amazing talent from some players. However, from time to time it also offers some bizarre situations that can shock spectators and also make them laugh. It is possible to visit 1xbet.co.ke for betting Kenya, where punters can also make their bets on weird occurrences. From time to time it seems that players forget that they can also receive yellow and red cards before the beginning or after the end of a match. The Brazilian goalkeeper Jean Fernandes learned about this in the most difficult way. The 1xBet Kenya website can be visited for betting at any moment, and it has countless possible outcomes where members can wager on. Olimpia and Cerro Porteño are the two most important teams in Paraguayan football. When those two teams encounter each other in the field, a great match can be expected. Currently, live bet Kenya from 1xBet bookmaker website can be made on this high-voltage Paraguayan derby. What happened on the 12th of December 2021 proves how fierce this match can be. These two teams saw each other in the final of the Paraguayan Super Cup. Brazilian Jean Fernandes was the keeper for Cerro Porteño. When the teams jumped into the field and took their positions, Fernandes positioned himself on the goal that was next to the fans of the opposing side. The match hadn’t started yet, but Fernandes started to make offensive gestures to the Olimpia fans that were behind him. On the 1xBet Kenya bookmaker website, fans can make live bets from lots of matches in Paraguay and the rest of the world. Referee Éber Aquino went to the VAR after these gestures were reported to him. He checked the images and made a decision. Red card for Fernandes. The 1xBet – best betting apps in Kenya download can be done very easily into Android and iOS devices. It was possible for Cerro Porteño to put their substitute goalkeeper Rodrigo Muñoz and play with 11 players. This was because the red card was shown before the match started. Eventually, Fernandes’ team Cerro Porteño lost 1-3. The goals were scored by: The bad performance of Cerro Porteño can’t be attributed to this red card, as they still played with 11 players. However, this was still a bizarre episode in football. The best betting apps in Kenya, which is the 1xBet one, features lots of matches in Paraguayan football and can be downloaded for free.