The All Progressive Congress (APC) North Central Forum (NCF) has thrown its weight behind the minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, saying he is the right candidate to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari. Speaking with newsmen on behalf of the leaders and members of the forum in Jos the Plateau State capital, the chairman, Saleh Mandung Zazzaga, said they tried their best to ensure that someone from their region emerges as the next president, but that the notion is now impossible in APC with the emergence of the party national chairman from the North and the zoning of the presidency to the south. He explained that they had to meet and assess the presidential aspirants and give their support to someone who is not only a friend of the region, but someone who is able and capable to take the nation to a greater height. “And having carefully studied the presidential aspirants, we have decided to settle for Amaechi, who declared his presidential aspiration in Portharcourt on Friday, because of his quality and strength of character. “Rotimi Amechi as we know is a fearless, bold, capable and focused leader. Everyone in this country knows his antecedents, as a unionist, a speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly, as a governor for eight years and now a minister. ments are laudable and generally beneficial to the people. That is why we have decided to give our support to him as the next and right person to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari come 2023”. He further stressed that they all know that the minister is fearless and can confront anything or anyone while defending whatever he believes in. “Importantly also, he is a detribalised Nigerian and a friend of all the regions in the country. And at this critical moment of the glaring ethno-religious divide of the nation, someone like Amaechi is required to come and bridge the widening gap in the country. Unlike other southerners who don’t understand the fabrics of the Northern society, Amechi on many instances has shown a good understanding of the North and has related with the people accordingly”. The chairman also called on the  people not only from the North Central region, but as well as the North and the nation in general to support a man who will unite the country, improve security, boost the economy and revitalize all the key sectors in the nation. And we see all that possibility in Amechi owing to his track record,” he said. Zazzaga however urged APC leaders to give all candidates a level playing ground, but that they should also understand that a sellable candidate to all Nigerians is important, as the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is waiting for the APC to make any wrong move so that they can take advantage of that. He also urged the politicians and the electorates to go about their political activities peacefully so that the forthcoming election would be hitch-free and crisis-free as well.