The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), has elected the executive director,  Fidelity Bank Plc, Dr Ken Onyewuchi Opara has its next president and chairman in council. Opara, along other officers of the institute, emerged in a seamless election during the institute’s 2022 annual general meeting, held at the Bankers House,  Lagos on Saturday, and got the overall mandate of the professional body to pilot Its affairs in the coming years, the CIBN said yesterday. In his brief remarks accepting his election, Dr Opara hailed the founding fathers of the institute promising to uphold the tenets of the professional body. He commended the immediate past executive for a job well done promising to raise the bar. Opara will succeed Dr. Bayo Olugbemi, whose two-year tenure will come to an end  on May 21st, 2022. Other elected officers are Prof. Pius Oladeji Olanrewaju, as the 1st vice president; Mr. Oladele Alabi, as the 2nd vice president and Mrs. Mojisola Bakare-Asieru, as the national treasurer while other elected positions in the governing council are Dr. Victor Ndubuisi Aguwah; Mr. Olayinka Alade Odutola; Ms. Mary Oluwakemi Aina and Mr. Segun Oshadare to serve the 2022 to 2024 tenure. The new exco will be inaugurated next month. The Institute also reviewed the 2021 financial and operational reports. National treasurer of the institute, Mr. Oladele Alabi, who gave the financial highlights said  the institute recorded an improved Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of N1.766 billion in 2021 from N1.468 billion recorded in 2020, representing a growth of 20.3 per cent. This is an indication that the institute is strategically moving towards its aspiration of becoming financially independent. year closed with a net operating surplus of N800.14 million in 2021 and this reflects a 40.31 per cent  increase from N570.26 million recorded in 2020. The CIBN is the umbrella professional body for Banker authorised to control entry into the profession, set standards and maintain professional ethics among its members.