For emphasis, Abdullahi Adamu, until his emergence as the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), was the senator representing Nasarawa West. Senator Tanko Al-Makura who, like Adamu, served two terms as governor of Nasarawa State, currently represents the Nasarawa South senatorial district at the upper chambers of the National Assembly, while Godiya Akwashiki represents Nasarawa North senatorial zone. They all belong to the governing APC. Fundamentally, the presence of the trio in one political party is seen as a blessing because they command a cult-like political followings with Al-Makura who effectively nailed the political coffin of PDP in Nasarawa state when he defeated the late Governor Aliyu Akwe Doma, seen as the star boy of Nasarawa politics. From 1999 to 2011, the Nasarawa PDP produced two governors in Abdullahi Adamu (1999-2007) and the late Aliyu Akwe Doma (2007-2011). Al-Makura emerged the governor of the State on the platform of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) after demystifying the ruling PDP when he defeated Governor Doma who fruitlessly sought a reelection in 2011. Halfway into his first term, Al-Makura, through deft political moves, depleted the PDP in the state consequent upon which during the 2015 general elections, majority of PDP’s foot soldiers in the state dumped it for the APC. Al-Makura embarked on scores of developmental projects across the nooks and cranny of the State, building what many people described today as the modern Nasarawa State. His performance earned him the appellation, “Architect of Modern Nasarawa State” just as his developmental strides endeared him to the people of the state and he broke all barriers particularly the ethnic sentiments when he won re-election in 2015. However, as his tenure drew to a close in 2019, Al-Makura anointed Abdullahi Sule, the then GMD of Dangote Sugar Refinery, as his successor and as should be expected, this decision did not go down well with some party stakeholders. Anointing Sule and paving the way for him to emerge the APC governorship candidate in 2019 was not an easy decision for Al-Makura who had to pacify the likes of Senator Akwashiki, then the deputy speaker of the State assembly and a front-runner for the guber seat, to drop his ambition and run for the senatorial seat. Our correspondent recalls that the likes of Al-Makura’s deputy, Silas Agara; Aliyu Wadada, Dauda Kigbu among others, had indicated interest to succeed Al-Makura and Engr Sule would not have survived their onslaught if not for Al-Makura’s endorsement. It is widely speculated that the choice of Engr Sule marked the genesis of the cold war between Al-Makura and Senator Adamu. The war reached a crescendo when Al-Makura attempted to wrestle the APC Senatorial ticket from Adamu by sponsoring his then Commissioner for Education, Aliyu Tijjani to slug it out with Adamu. Analysts said Adamu’s dexterity and sagacity in the face of a seeming attempt to sweep him off the senate by frustrating his return bid paved the way for him to secure his 2019 senatorial ticket and subsequently got elected to the Senate for the third time. It appears Adamu got his perfect chance to retaliate during the struggle for the national chairmanship of the APC. When the then Mai Mala Buni-led committee released guidelines for the national convention of the party, only Al-Makura indicated interest from Nasarawa State, to vie for the position of national chairman. Indeed, key stakeholders of Nasarawa APC led by Governor Abdullahi Sule, endorsed Al-Makura as their sole candidate for the position. Expectedly, when Senator Abdullahi Adamu later indicated interest for the same position a few weeks to the national convention of the party, it was difficult for the stakeholders to reverse their decision. In spite of the position taken by some stakeholders of APC in Nasarawa state to back the chairmanship aspiration of Senator Al-Makura, Adamu soldiered on with his aspiration and eventually emerged national chairman and has since assumed duties. Fundamentally, it appears the tiff between the duo of Adamu and Al-Makura is far from being over as it is alleged that Adamu penciled down names of some persons including Al-Makura who is believed to be angling for a return to the senate, to be denied return tickets. Aside from Al-Makura, names like those of Senator Godiya Akwashiki who currently represents Nasarawa North senatorial districts and some members of the State House of Assembly are said to be among those targeted for ticket denials. Others are the duo of Aliyu Wadada and Barr Labaran Magaji who are angling to fill the vacuum created by Adamu’s emergence as National Chair of the APC, are said to be persons the new APC chairman penciled down to be denied tickets. Already, contenders within the APC have emerged to challenge Senators Al-Makura, and Godiya Akwashiki, both of who are initially seen as having no challengers to their return tickets because of their sterling performance. It is widely speculated that as soon as Senator Adamu took oath of office, he allegedly asked his close allies to indicate interest in the senatorial tickets of the 3 zones in the state. As at the last count, former Executive Secretary of the National Judicial Commission (NJC) Barr Danladi Evuluanza, widely seen as Adamu’s close ally, has declared interest to slug it out with Senator Godiya Akwashiki in the northern senatorial zone. In the Southern Senatorial zone, the duo of Salihu Egyegbola and Musa Hussaini have declared interest to contest the party ticket with Al-Makura in the Senatorial primaries. Musa was Commissioner for Justice when Adamu served as governor of the State. In the western Senatorial zone where he just vacated the seat, Adamu has reportedly endorsed one of his close allies, Arc Shehu Tukur as his preferred choice against the likes of Barr Magaji and Hon Wadada. It was gathered that Wadada who is the most popular candidate in the zone and is seen as having mass appeal needed to win elections any day if given the ticket, is the preferred choice of Governor Abdullahi Sule. Credible party sources said Governor Sule who prefers that popular candidates like Al-Makura, Akwashiki and Wadada be allowed to fly the party’s flag to make the campaign easier for the party, is not happy with the turn of events in the state chapter of the APC, which could portends disintegration. Although Adamu could not be reached for comment, one of his close aides who doesn’t want his name mentioned said the allegations against the APC national chairman are baseless. “It is laughable and indeed a joke of the century for anyone to say Adamu whose track record of strict adherence to democratic ideals is stellar would do anything undemocratic. “The allegation that he was not comfortable with the emergence of Governor Sule is a lie from the pit of hell. Senator Adamu played a critical role in Governor Sule’s victory at the polls and has continued to offer wise counsel to the governor and his government. “One other laughable allegation is that the national chairman will deny some persons tickets. To say so is to suggest that as the national chairman, Senator Adamu has tickets in his closet and will dole out to whoever he wishes. “How anyone can think this way is what I still cannot comprehend because the party has clearly spelt out means through which flag-bearers can emerge. Aspirants can get the APC ticket through direct, indirect primaries or consensus options. Adamu believes in expanding the democratic space and will do everything possible to ensure that. If more people indicate interest for the senatorial seats, how does that amount to the national chairman trying to deny current occupants return tickets? He urged members of the APC to ignore the rumour of a cold war between Adamu and Al-Makura, saying nothing could be farther from the truth. He said, “Senator Adamu is a father figure that accommodates and never harbors ill-feelings against members of other political parties let alone those of the APC where he is currently saddled with the responsibility of driving it to winning more seats in the 2023 polls”. Nevertheless, analysts said a full blown war exist between the two prominent sons of the state who are also leading lights of the APC warning that if not properly handled, the tiff between Al-Makura and Adamu could jeopardize the party’s fortune as the PDP is regrouping to cash in on this war and take over the state. Already, there are fears of looming squabbles between the supporters of Adamu and those of Senators Al-Makura and Akwashiki who view Adamu as hell bent on nailing the political coffins of their principals. Politics watchers assert that if left unchecked, the internal wrangling could provide the opposition PDP and other smaller parties a fertile ground to decimate the ruling APC and ultimately, wrestle power from it in the 2023 polls.