Former vice president Atiku Abubakar yesterday told the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to offer him the right of first refusal to the party’s presidential ticket, adding that he already has 11million votes in his kitty. The former vice president who stated this when he met with the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party yesterday in Abuja, said he will address the challenges of unity, security and economy if he emerges president. He further assured the party that he will not be like President Muhammadu Buhari who isn’t able to reconcile two parastatals that are fighting over the recruitment in the police while the security situation in the country degenerates. But the PDP national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, said despite being friends with Atiku for the past 30years, he won’t work for him to emerge as the candidate. He also, in a veiled reference to the botched consensus arrangement, urged sympathizers of the party to desist from trying to choose a candidate for the party, stressing that the party has a time-tested way of electing its candidates. However, Atiku’s claim to the right of first refusal is predicated on his 11,262,978 votes which he got in 2019. In 2007, the former president scored 2,637,848. Atiku said, “Mr. Chairman and members of the National Working Committee, I’m really not here to lecture you, I’m just really here to inform you of my decision, to run again, and also to urge you to provide the right kind of leadership so that the best candidate can emerge. “And I dare say Mr. Chairman, I am the best candidate. Under normal circumstances Mr. Chairman, this is a guy who already has 11 million votes in his kitty. And I think, as a party, you should give me the right of first refusal but we are in a democracy. All What I can urge you is to make sure that the way you have started, you also conclude the way you have started by being very fair, very credible, giving every contestant the opportunity to face the electorate.” Atiku added “when I declared to run for the president of this country, I said I was going to emphasize five key issues and these five key issues are germane. I said I was going to make sure that I reunite this country. And that was why I referred to myself as the unifier. “Secondly, I said I was going to deal decisively with security issues because there has to be rule of law, there has to be security.” He narrated how he urged President Buhari to recruit policemen after he (Atiku) was told by the Niger State governor that Bandits had taken over 12 local governments in the state.  “I went to the President, I said, Mr. President, we need more policemen and the President said how can I give you more policemen when the inspector general of police and the police service commission are in court on who will recruit policemen. I cannot be that kind of President. And that is where we added today. We cannot recruit policemen because the two agencies are in court and we have a president who cannot bring under control his own heads of departments, not even ministers.”  On his part, Ayu said who reflected on his friendship with Atiku for the past 30years said he won’t,  in his capacity as chairman, attempt to sway the primaries in the former vice president’s favor.  He also stated that the party will setup a committee to design a party manifesto ahead of the presidential election.  Ayu said, “You are a presidential aspirant today. But I want people to know that you are still my friend. I can’t deny you. I never deny my friends including those who are in the other disastrous party. You know them because even there we have common friends who miss the road, who normally should be here with us.  “More importantly, since we formed this party as you have mentioned, we have worked together in various capacities. It is you and I that plotted the emergence of President Obasanjo.  “ I’m saying this to make it clear that those who say Oh, because of my personal relationship with you, as chairman, I’ll work for you. Mr. Vice President, I will not work for you as an aspirant. I will work for all the 17 aspirants. It is left to you to convince the delegates of our party that you are the best. You have to market yourself ,you have to work hard. This National Working Committee for now we remain an umpire. We are not going to take side with any particular aspirants. But we love you all. I’ve said repeatedly that each one of you given the opportunity will run this country better than what APC has done or will be able to do.”  In a reference to the controversial consensus arrangement, Ayu said “Let me take time to explain to Nigerians that the party has its own internal mechanisms of selecting a candidate whether by consensus, or by election we do it transparently. Those who love our party more than us should please tarry a little, they should not select candidates for the People’s Democratic Party. They don’t have our mandate and we will not concede that mandate to anybody, Young or an elder who chooses by himself to choose candidate for us. Our internal processes will go ahead and we are going ahead with it. At the end of the day, we’ll come up with a candidate chosen by the members of the People’s Democratic Party themselves. It is that candidate that will present to the rest of Nigeria for the forthcoming elections.”