ROYAL COUNTY DOWN G.C. Newcastle, Northern Ireland.Old Tom Morris (1889), Donald Steel (remodeled, 1998)7,186 yards, par 71. On a clear spring day, with Dundrum Bay to the east, the Mountains of Mourne to the south and gorse-covered dunes in golden bloom, there is no lovelier place in golf. The design is attributed to Old Tom Morris but was refined by half a dozen architects in the past 120 years, most recently by Donald Steel. TARA ITI G.C. Mangawhai, New Zealand, Tom Doak (2015). 6,840 yards, par 71. Built by American designer Tom Doak from what had been a pine-covered Sahara along the eastern coast of New Zealand’s North Island, it’s far more links-like than the country’s other coastal courses, most of which are on rock. Doak and design associate Brian Slawnik spent more than two years gently resculpting the sandy soil into hummocks, punchbowls and sand dunes that look like they were formed by wind and vegetated by nature.  MUIRFIELD Gullane, Scotland. Old Tom Morris (1891), H.S. Colt (1925), Martin Hawtree (2011) 7,245 yards, par 71. Muirfield is universally admired as a low-key, straightforward links with fairways seemingly containing a million traffic bumps. Except for a blind tee shot on the 11th, every shot is visible and well-defined. Greens are the correct size to fit the expected iron of approach. The routing changes direction on every hole to pose different wind conditions.  MORFONTAINE G.C. France, Tom Simpson (1927), Kyle Phillips (2004). 6,584 yards, par 70. A timeless 1927 design north of Paris by British architect Tom Simpson, Morfontaine looks suspiciously like a heathland course around London, with windswept Scotch pines and clumps of heather atop a base of sand. But it’s tighter than Sunningdale or St. George’s Hill, and the forest surrounding holes is far denser.  SOUTH CAPE OWNERS CLUB Namhae Island, South Korea.Kyle Phillips (2013).7,313 yards, par 72. Open for five years now, this Kyle Phillips design is slowly gaining attention as visitors from around the world compare its stunning design to everything from Kingsbarns (another Phillips design, which also features ocean views from every tee), to Teeth of the Dog (South Cape has even more holes along the coast) to Cabot Cliffs (there will be a debate as to which has the more dramatic ocean-carry 16th hole) to the granddaddy of ocean courses, Pebble Beach.  CABOT CLIFFS Inverness, Nova Scotia, Canada. Bill Coore, Ben Crenshaw (2015) 6,765 yards, par 72. Another sensational Bill Coore and Ben Crenshaw design, Cabot Cliffs overflows with variety with its southernmost holes in Lahinch-like sand dunes, its northernmost atop Pebble Beach-type ocean cliffs and bits of pine-lined Scottish highlands in between. The course has six par 5s, including three in the space of four holes, and six par 3s, plus an additional one-shot bye-hole aside the fourth.  HIRONO G.C. Hyogo, Japan, C.H. Alison (1932), Martin Ebert (2018-’19).7,169 yards, par 72. This is undoubtedly the finest design of globetrotting C.H. Alison, longtime partner of H.S. Colt. He laid out Hirono in the early 1930s in a hilly pine forest slashed by gulleys, clearing wide corridors and positioning greens on the crests of ridges. What makes Hirono special was Alison’s spectacular bunkering, which ranged from diagonal cross bunkers, fearsome carry bunkers and strings of ragged-edged ones. Soon after completion, writers were calling Hirono the Pine Valley of Japan. Culled From:www.golfdigest.com