Crisis looms within the Plateau State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as some gubernatorial aspirants and stakeholders have alleged a plot in the state party leadership to give undue advantage to an aspirant ahead of the primary election. The aspirants, who pleaded anonymity, alleged a plot to skew the party’s governorship primaries, which will hold next month, in favour of a supposed friend of the party state chairman, Chris Hassan. But the PDP leadership in the state has dismissed the claim, saying it is the handiwork of lazy politicians. The Plateau State PDP public relations officer, Mr Akans John, told LEADERSHIP that the allegation is not only false but a ploy by moles within the party to cause disaffection. So far no fewer than 15 aspirants have emerged on the party’s platform. However, some of the gubernatorial aspirants who made the allegation to select journalists at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja during the submission of their forms at the weekend, said part of the plot is to make the party chairman the running mate to the supposed aspirant. According to one of them, “We hear that he is working assiduously to bring on board his friend, a staff of AGIP in Abuja who is said to have spent millions of naira to make him state chairman of the party. To this end, he has begun a subtle conscription of some working committee members to work on the LGA chairmen through the zonal chairmen to ensure they endorse his friend as the candidate for the governorship position who will in turn pick him as deputy governor. He is tipping the individual exco members to influence them to support his aspirant.” They vowed to resist the plot regardless of whatever monetary inducements are involved. “For now, we are watching, but the information is everywhere.” They further stated despite the mock election done in some local government areas, the party executives do not seem favourably disposed to the arrangement. Another stakeholder who spoke alongside the aspirants said,” Even though our aspirant was not part of the kangaroo mock election, a level playing ground is expected from the state exco whose election has created issues in the state. “I don’t want to believe the story that the state exco is planning this evil. If it’s true, they will fail woefully. My worry is that they will plunge the party into disrepute before Plateau people again. “Let the aspirant himself not be deceived. Some of them worked for the Plateau project in 2019 against the interest of the PDP in the state, but today they are coming to contest under the party just because they have money. We shall see how far their money will take them to. “Can you imagine one of the aspirants saying he can do without his own LGA and still win the guber ticket? Anyway, it’s left to be seen how the state party structure will conduct itself and put together a credible and fair process that will produce a generally acceptable flagbearer for the party in the state.”  Reacting however, the PDP public relations officer, John, dismissed the claim saying it is the handiwork of “lazy politicians”who are afraid to get into the field and contest for the primaries.  He also described those making such claims as moles of the ruling APC in the state, stressing that having failed to use litigations to undo the party, the ruling party “has resorted to using some persons do cause confusion within our midst but it has failed”  He explained that such claims could be true because the party has repeatedly assured that it will ensure level playing field and transparency.  While he noted that no aspirant has been denied access to party delegates, he stressed that the process of electing ad hoc delegates is still in the works hence the claim of working for an alleged aspirant does not arise.  