New leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said one of the primes in its agenda is adding more states to its kitty in the South East geopolitical zone in the 2023 general election. The party’s national vice chairman South East, Dr Ijeomah Arodiogbu, who stated this shortly after the inaugural meeting of the National Working Committee (NWC) in Abuja, said this is achievable considering the crop of politicians in the party from the zone. Arodiogbu vowed that the governing party would leave no stone unturned in reconciling aggrieved chieftains of the party in the South East geopolitical zone. He stated: “In 2023, we expect an election victory in the South East. My job is to deepen the stronghold of the party in the whole of the South East. And I know the stakeholders that recommended me and ensure that I emerged, know that I have the ability and the wherewithal and strategy to deliver more success for APC in the whole of South East. “We target at least to take more states. The important thing is that most of the political leaders and opinion leaders in the South East are already in APC. But the problem is that these efforts and kinetics must be put together to yield. These potentialities have to be put together to yield movement and build victory for the party. And I have the ability to do so and I have started. “We will achieve more. If I don’t get more states for APC in the South East I will feel personally that I have failed. So, we will get more states.  We will take over more. And they are willing to join. Because the PDP governors in those states are not doing well. So, we will bring good candidates and win the remaining states.” The national vice chairman further justified the use of consensus to select the party leaders in the just concluded national convention of the party arguing that it was in the best interest of the party. He continued: “The consensus is in the party constitution. And it is only when we cannot use it that you go for voting. And that is what happened. In some positions, we went to vote. Some aspirants refused to step down despite pleas by leaders. I believed the leaders came together and decided on how it would go. And that was how it went. “The consensus saved us a lot of rancour. From lots of disunity. From the lack of success that our detractors hope will befall the national convention.  So, it was a very successful National Convention for the APC. But I will advise other leaders most especially elected ones like the state party chairmen, like zonal chairmen to reach out to the aggrieved people. “Like I have called some on the phone. And the need for them to come back to the mainstream. Because importantly I will not tolerate any form of distraction that will lead to the failure of the party. I want results. “The aspirants all step down willingly. Nobody was cajoled or forced to step down. The party promised everybody that stepped down a refund of his or her nomination fees. So, I don’t know why anyone will be willing to go back as to why he stepped down.” On Igbo presidency, he said while it is a two-way thing, it remains a party decision. “The party will take a democratic route to achieving that. We are not at the bridge yet. The outcome will unfold in the next few days or weeks at the primaries,” he added.