The Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited has expressed strong optimism that the menace of pipeline vandalism and crude oil theft will be brought under control within the next two to three weeks. This is as National Petroleum Investment Management Services  (NAPIMS) received two ISO certifications namely ISO22301:2019 certification for Business Continuity Management System and ISO9001:2015 from RINA Italy, effectively making it the first government institution in Africa to receive the certifications. The presentation was done on Friday in Abuja at the headquarters of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd at an event attended by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipre Sylva, the Chairman of the NNPC Board Mrs Margery Okadigbo; the Group Managing Director of the NNPC Mele Kyari, the Group General Manager NAPIMS Bala Wunti and other senior management staff of the NNPC. Group managing director/CEO of the NNPC, Mele Kolo Kyari, who revealed this yesterday, in Abuja, said the Nigerian Navy is currently carrying out serious military operations in the Niger Delta to ensure that oil and gas assets are protected. Oil Theft: Nigeria Lost $3.27bn In 14 Months – Federal Govt Speaking at the official presentation of ISO 22301 certifications to the National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS), and launch of the Electronic Materials Management Solutions (EMMS), Kyari, decried the activities of bandits in the Niger Delta which were vandalising pipelines and stealing crude oil, leading to what he described as the lowest level of production in the history of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry. He said, “Enormous work is going on with security agencies and I am optimistic that within two to three weeks, very measurable outcomes will come up so that our businesses can continue. “The Navy is carrying out massive operation to contain oil theft in the Niger Delta as we speak.” The NNPC boss further, reiterated that the national oil company will become a fully Limited Liability firm from July 1, 2022. He added that from that date, the company will operate in full compliance with the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act of 2020. According to Kyari, implementing the Petroleum Induction Act (PIA) means that the operations of the NNPC will be run like a private sector enterprise in order to maximise productivity and profitability. Commenting on the ISO certifications, the NNPC boss further said: “Business Continuity is everything in today’s context. As we speak now, there is massive disruption to our operations as a result of activities of vandals and criminals around our pipelines in the Niger Delta area. This has brought down our production to as low as we have never seen before. Today we are doing less than 1.5 million barrels per day. Simply because some criminals have decided to have some infractions on our pipelines. That clearly is the biggest infraction that we are facing today and this kind of engagement and the certification we have around our systems and processes should be able to respond to this and bring in the best framework possible to contain the situation,” he said. Also speaking, the group general manager NAPIMS, Mr Bala Wunti, said the Business Continuity Management Certification will help in ensuring an efficient and effective tracking of inventory in the oil and gas sector, fortify transparent online bidding for clients as well as adequately manage threats and disruptive incidents. The minister of state, Petroleum Resources, Mr Timipre Sylva, in his comments, assured Nigerians that the protracted petrol scarcity nightmare will never repeat itself. Sylva said the recent fuel scarcity crisis was a reaction to the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), adding that it indicated that the Act was indeed a good development. Sylva, who was represented by director, Human Resources, Dr. Famous Eseduwo, assured that “Nigeria will never experience such kind of petroleum crisis again. He further commended NAPIMs for its feat in acquiring the various certifications in the oil and gas solutions. He said: “I want to assure you that the queues you saw last time will be the last time you will see queues in Nigeria. When you are diagnosed with a problem, and if the right drug is administered, definitely there are going to be reactions. The petroleum queues you saw recently are the reactions of the PIA. And that is to tell you that the PIA is the right Bill for the Nigerian oil and gas industry; and with the capable hands of the GMD and all other supporters, we want to assure Nigerians that things like the petroleum crisis will be a thing of the past as soon as possible.” 