Allianz  Nigeria is set to pay for funeral expenses of Nigerians who subscribed to its new family protection plan. The insurer will provide a payout to cover funeral expenses following the loss of a loved one. This new product, according to the underwriter, was the outcome of months of extensive market research into current and prospective customer demands in the local market, especially in the wake of gradual recovery from the global disruption of Covid-19. With an annual premium as low as N25,000 per annum for five years maturity period, a policyholder could be entitled to about N1million burial expenses and above. Similarly, there is a plan to pay for the policy at once and such Policyholder is fully covered.for.thr rest of his life. Speaking at the media parley to unveil the new product at the weekend, the chief executive officer of Allianz Nigeria, Adeolu Adewumi-Zer, said the economic meltdown has highlighted the need for products that lighten the financial burden of middle and low-income families, following tragedy or loss. The insurance product, she said, will offer protection to the entire family by covering the cost of funeral rites as burial ceremonies form an important part of the Nigerian culture across ethnicities. Stating that, paying the last respect to loved ones that have passed on will impose a heavy financial burden upon the surviving relatives, she added that the cover enables the family to give the departed a desired and befitting burial. It is a simple product that enables the assured and their loved ones to enjoy peace of mind knowing their financial stability will not be threatened in the event of a loss, she stressed. While the product allows  multiple  payouts  and  the continuation  of the policy after the  demise of the policyholder,  she added. that, family can continue  the premium payments and stay covered in the event of future loss. She pointed out that, “for holidaying  customers and business executives alike, the plan will extend to cover accommodation costs related to Covid-19 diagnosis during the insured trip. “Our goal is to actively seek feedback on a rolling basis from our customers and the market at large and continuously use the feedback to create value for the customer and all stakeholders.” “The customer is free to choose the payment frequency (monthly, quarterly, annually, or single premium) of a lumped premium for all the covered family members. This family product provides life cover for the ‘main life’ (policyholder), a spouse, children, parents, and even parents-in-law as the customer desires. “ Each ‘life’ has its individual  and separate cover in this bundled plan, with the applicable sum assured payable on the death of anyone covered by this policy. “At  Allianz  Nigeria,  we  are  focused  on  creating  simple  intuitive  products  that  solve  real problems that are unique  to our market,” the chief customer officer at  Allianz  Nigeria. Patience Ugboajah stressed. To her, “we wanted  to  provide  a  very  flexible  product  that  is  affordable  to  the everyday Nigerian, regardless of their income level”. This funeral insurance is the second product the company has launched in 12 months. “Last June, and in response to the market demand for travel insurance that includes Covid-19 risks, the  firm  introduced  an  enhanced  product  that  will  cover  the  cost of  emergency  medical expenses associated with Covid-19 diagnosis whilst on a trip.”