The governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele and chief executive officer of the Financial Institution Training Centre, (FITC), Mrs. Chizor Malize are expected to address stakeholders on financial inclusion at the upcoming 3rd Edition of ‘The Industry Summit/Awards’ in Lagos. The Industry Summit, formerly The Industry Evening Summit is organised by The Industry Newspaper and it is scheduled to hold in Ikeja Lagos on Tuesday, April 26th, 2022. This year’s event, which is third in its series, is themed: “Financial inclusion, digital payment and the challenges of banking the unbanked.”. The event will be chaired by the Lagos state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the special guest of honour is the Akwa Ibom state governor, Mr. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel. A statement from the convener of the Summit/Awards, and the Editor-in-chief of the Industry Newspapers, Mr. Goddie Ofose disclosed that, “the event is envisioned to bring together leaders of thoughts in Nigerian business landscape in order to rev up conversations that would deepen financial inclusion and proffer solution to the challenges of banking the unbanked. According to him, Nigerians who have access to financial services are reported as having a lack of basic resources and the financial knowledge necessary to carry out transactions, stressing that, lack of education around financial services has likely contributed to low financial inclusion. He pointed out that, “in a quest to extend financial services to the unbanked, particularly those in remote and rural regions, it is critical that we engender conversation about the viability of agents. Agents are retail storefront operators representing financial services providers with the delivery of financial services.” Also, the awards ceremony will witness conferment of awards on great personalities such as Biodun Shobanjo as Doyen of Advertising in Africa, Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State as the Governor, six first ladies from each geopolitical zone with best PET projects, among others.