The National President ,  National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN)   Mr .Achimugwu Anibe said  implementation of federal government’s road map policy on Cotton, Textile and Garment(CTG) is the key to revival of textile sector in the country.  He said  implementation of road map policy  will  not only enable stakeholders to  leverage on its success , it will  enhance relationship among sector’s stakeholders.  Stakeholders in textile and cotton value chain recently held a one day seminar on national dialogue on the CTG policy in Nigeria. The event was coordinated with the  collaboration of the German Cooperation agency,  Deutsche Zusammennarbett, the European Union ( EU) and the Nigerian Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment . Other key stakeholders are Cotton Production Merchant Association of Nigeria (COPMAN), Nigeria Textile Manufacturers Association (NTMA), Cotton Ginners (GAMAN)  Offering his perspective on ways  to revive the sector, Anibe who echoed similar views of other stakeholders in attendance said for industries in the cotton sector value chain  to survive, there there must be insistence on implementation of policies by  government.  NACOTAN president  was confident that if provisions contain in CTG   roadmap were  implemented, problems that beset CTG sector will be solved.  He said the  seminar was a follow up to an earlier meeting  held on Februrary 22, 2022  which called for  fashioning of  a roadmap for the implementation of the CTG (Cotton, Textile and Garment) policy of the federal government of Nigeria. Speaking at the occasion, President of  Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association (NITMAN)  Chief Folorunsho Daniyan said  encouraging attendance by stakeholders  underscores  importance  players in the industry attached to issues affecting the sector.  Executive Secretary, Cotton Ginners Association of Nigeria Mr . Samuel Oloruntoba, lamented about  pitiable state of cotton ginner in the cotton  value chain . He said  there were close to 52 ginneries in Nigeria in the past  but currently left with  about 21. “As a result, there is only 100 tonnes of cotton being ginned per annum instead of the potential of 600 tonnes.  This translates to a loss in both capacity and benefits”, he said