Following the need to ensure an effective safety management system in the aviation sector, especially as it regards disaster risk management in the civil aviation industry, the director-general/ CEO of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu, pledged to be a safety advocate who would ensure that many Nigerians are reached out with the gospel of health and safety. Nuhu was recently inaugurated as corporate member and “Fellow” Member of the Occupational Health and Safety Association (OSHAssociation) respectively in a conferment ceremony held at the NCAA Headquarters in Abuja. The conferment was in recognition of the world-class automation of the aviation sector, the strict adherence and compliance to safety and standards by operators in the aviation sector in Nigeria as well as Capt. Nuhu’s instrumental contribution to the enactment of a template for global aviation restart programme post-COVID-19. The Nigeria regional president of  OSHAssociation Dr Amb. Olusegun Aderemi, in his opening speech, declared that the investiture of the director-general as Fellow and Admittance of NCAA as a corporate member will play a catalytic role in accelerating the NCAA to align her operations and activities with international best practices in Safety, Health and Environment as they relate to the aviation sector in Nigeria. Aderemi furthermore assured that the NCAA as a corporate member of the OSHAssociation is now in a better position to obtain maximum support from OSHAssociation adding that the Association can now deploy its foreign technical expertise for employees’ training support, the inspection and audit of their facilities and engage in other necessary retainership programs to enable NCAA to further maintain high-quality standards in the aviation industry. Receiving the conferment, Nuhu said it pointed out the importance of getting every sector on track with safety. While describing the high level of risk in everyday day life and the aviation sector, the NCAA boss pointed out fatalities, and accidents especially on roads can be drastically reduced if drivers, as well as the layman on the street, have Health and Safety orientation as most accidents were as a result of recklessness and lack of safety orientation and training. Capt. Nuhu furthermore promised to be a Safety advocate who will reach out to many Nigerians with the gospel of Health and Safety. OSHAssociation, an international safety professional body, with a strong local presence in Nigeria is much determined to impact industries and communities positively as it continues to work acidulously towards its mandate of stunting fatalities, accidents and incidence across all sectors.