Prince Yemi Itodo, the senior special assistant on new media to the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has threatened to file a N2 billion lawsuit against the spokesman of Hon. Hassan Saleh Campaign Organization, Cletus Agada, for defamation. The threat was contained in a demand letter by his legal team, Pathfind Attorneys dated April 8, 2022 and addressed to Cletus Agada. In the letter which was signed by the senior partner, Precious Aire, Esq, the law firm cited how Agada defamed their client in a widely published write up on Facebook on Friday, 8th April, 2022. The letter said: “In the aforesaid write up bearing the photograph of our client, you made false and unsubstantiated defamatory statements against his person in the following words: “From Hon. Prince Onuh to Gov. Samuel Ortom and Hon. Francis Ottah Agbo, Prince Yemi Itodo is a criminal and serial blackmailer and cyber thug that has elevated blackmail to a trade and even have apprentice in his “workshop”. “Unfortunately for him this time, Hon. Hassan Anthony Saleh whom he’s trying to open an office on his head, has no intention of inviting him for “settlement” or patronage”. “But for the fact that he’s shameless, I would have said it will be a big shame if Yemi does not resign his membership of the PDP when Hon. Saleh is cleared for the primaries”. The law firm said Agada’s defamatory statements had and continued to damage the hard-earned reputation of their client who had already built a sound reputation over the years as a successful investigative journalist, businessman and politician. It demanded a retraction of the defamatory statements published on Facebook, in addition to an unreserved written apology to their client through the law firm’s office and publication of same in three national newspapers including The Nation, Leadership and Blueprint. It added that failure to comply with the demands within 72 hours would leave  them with no choice than to seek legal redress and would be claiming damages in the sum of N2 bn on behalf of Itodo. Itodo in a statement in Abuja yesterday said: “In the said publication made via the instrumentality of social media, which is regarded as agent of multimedia as captioned in section 22 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended; the media Aide and official spokesman of Hon. Saleh, an aspirant for Senate of Benue South under the PDP, labeled me as a “criminal”, “serial blackmailer” and “cyber thug.” “There was no prior acrimony between me and the said media aide to Hon. Hassan Saleh, safe for the trending discourse on the social space, where his principal posted his resignation letter as an SLA to the speaker of House of Representatives.”