Nigerians are beginning to be worried with the figures released by different organisations about the level of poverty in the country. The National Bureau of Statistics’ (NBS) latest figure is still that of the year 2020 when it said that 40 percent, or 83 million Nigerians live in poverty. It projects that the figure could rise to 90 million, or 45 percent of the population, in 2022. Recently, the executive secretary of the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), Idris Muhammad Bugaje, gave the number of unemployed Nigerian youths alone at about 90 million, with a large chunk of this number composed of unemployed graduates of tertiary institutions. Speaking at the annual general meeting of the Science and Technology Forum in Kaduna, he blamed the increasing unemployment rate for the security challenges in the country. Also, the  latest figures by the World Bank, released last week, put the projected number of poor Nigeriana at 95.1 million this year, blaming the Covid-19 pandemic, during which governments around the world, enforced shutdowns of economic activities in efforts to curb the spread of the virus, for the additional five million. It contended that but for the pandemic, the poverty progression would have followed a natural progression along the lines of natural population growth of 82.9 million poor in 2018/19, 85.2 million in 2020 and 90.0 million in 2022. So due to Covid, an additional 3,8 million Nigeria fell into poverty bracket in 2020, rising to five million this year. One aspect of this world bank report that is intriguing is its claim that poverty reduction in Nigeria stopped in 2015, the year the present administration took the reins of power. According to it, between 2000 and 2014, Nigeria enjoyed a period of sustained expansion during which the economy grew by around seven percent per year, outstripping the estimated annual population growth rate of 2.6 percent. But it dropped to 2.7 percent in 2015, then -1.6 percent in 2016, with declining global oil prices pushing Nigeria into its first recession in almost two decades. Nigeria Will Have To Dig Deep To Overcome Entrenched Patterns Of Poverty For a government that declared its ambition to lift 100 million Nigeria from poverty by 2030 – and claimed that it had achieved over ten percent of that figure (10.5 million) between 2019 and 2021, there is a contradiction somewhere. As a newspaper, we concur with the World Bank that as long as Nigeria continues to depend on oil export for most of its foreign exchange, its economic growth prospects will continue to be frail and narrow, exposing it to the vagaries of the international oil market. And the failure to refine crude locally is crippling the country’s economy with trillions of Naira that would have gone to social interventions expended on fuel subsidies. Similarly,  environmental degradation due to oil spill from exploration activities and illegal oil bunkering in the Niger Delta, insecurity in parts of the country leading to shutdown of economic activities across nation due to violent activities of terrorists and separatist violence in the South East have all served to drive millions away from their sources of livelihoods with more than two million stranded in internally displaced persons (IDP) camps. Physical insecurity has impacted food insecurity, with food price inflation pushing more and more families into the poverty line. It is reported that an average Nigerian household  devotes about 56 percent of their  income to food, the highest in the world when compared to countries like the US at 6.4 percent, UK at 8.2 percent, Canada at 9.1 percent and Australia at 9.8 percent. One of the federal government’s measures to combat poverty has been through the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) through which it says 12 million households have benefitted from in the last five years from cash transfers to the rural poor women and loans to small scale businesses to boost their predictivity levels as well as empowerment programmes for youths to be temporally engaged in low-pay jobs for a period of time. However, these interventions cannot solve the problem; they can only be palliatives, and once the interventions stop, the beneficiaries sink back into poverty.  Also, in a country with a weak data system, it is doubtful how much of an impact these interventions have made, especially with reports from local and international organisations showing that poverty is on the rise. As a newspaper, we are constrained to say that the country cannot make much economic progress with the present high level of insecurity.  It hinders local populations from engaging in productive economic ventures while also scaring off foreign investors. So, the war on terror and all forms of violent criminality must be fought frontally and won as a first step to fighting poverty. Also, the educational system should be tweaked to include compulsory technical vocational education up to tertiary levels. The government must, of necessity, diversify the economy away from oil by investing in modernised agriculture production and processing, and developing the solid minerals and manufacturing sectors, among others. The government must also take practical steps to drastically cut down on the wasteful cost of governance so that more funds would be available for economic and social interventions.