As the race for the Government House of Niger State in 2023 elections continues to gather heat, a former Minister of Sport, Barrister Abdulrahman Hassan Gimba, has joined the race under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Accompanied by thousands of his supporters, Gimba picked his nomination forms earlier on Monday at the PDP national headquarters in Abuja amid pomp and pageantry. However, many people, including leading PDP chieftains from Niger State have expressed happiness over the ex-minister’s joining the race. A PDP chieftain from the state who pleaded for anonymity, said, “among those contesting for governorship in PDP, only Barrister Abdulrahman Gimba has the credentials and qualities of giving the APC a run for their money. Many were saying that he wouldn’t join the race. Thank God he has finally joined the race. We are now happy that we now have someone that everybody loves without any string attached. The best thing that the party will do for herself is to consensually give him the ticket or the delegates should vote for him en masse.” Also reacting to the development, a popular columnist and socio-political commentator, Gimba Kakanda, said the ex-minister was his most-preffered person among those gunning for Governor Abubakar Sani Bello’s seat. Kakanda’s post generated dozens of endorsements of the aspirant from his followers on the social media. He described the seasoned legal practitioner as a political maverick and disciplinarian capable of heralding change in Niger State. According to him, “Last January, I responded to a tweet curious about the options before the people of Niger State in the road to 2023, and my unnamed preferred candidate was instantly identified by a Twitter user. “A few days ago, I read that the PDP in Niger South senatorial district had agreed on a certain big-spending politician as consensus candidate, and it was quite disheartening. This, thankfully, turned out to be false. The PDP in Niger State has no consensus candidate. “The man in my tweet is Barrister Abdulrahman Hassan Gimba, a seasoned lawyer and Minister of Sports in President Umaru Yar’Adua’s government. He’s a political maverick, and arguably the most uncompromising disciplinarian I’ve ever encountered. I just read that he obtained the state’s Governorship nomination form today, and I look forward to the fireworks ahead.” Meanwhile, after picking the nomination form, the ex-minister paid a visit to a Minister of Finance during the regime of Military President, Ibrahim Babangida, Alhaji Ahmadu Abubakar Muye, to seek his blessings and advice. He equally visited Alhaji Sachi Mayaki, Dr. Tunji Olagunju and Prof. Sulaiman Adeyemi, among others. 2023: Ex-sport Minister Joins Niger Gov’ship Race By Abu Nmodu As the race for the Government House of Niger State in 2023 elections continues to gather heat, a former Minister of Sport, Barrister Abdulrahman Hassan Gimba, has joined the race under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Accompanied by thousands of his supporters, Gimba picked his nomination forms earlier on Monday at the PDP national headquarters in Abuja amid pomp and pageantry. However, many people, including leading PDP chieftains from Niger State have expressed happiness over the ex-minister’s joining the race. A PDP chieftain from the state who pleaded for anonymity, said, “among those contesting for governorship in PDP, only Barrister Abdulrahman Gimba has the credentials and qualities of giving the APC a run for their money. Many were saying that he wouldn’t join the race. Thank God he has finally joined the race. We are now happy that we now have someone that everybody loves without any string attached. The best thing that the party will do for herself is to consensually give him the ticket or the delegates should vote for him en masse.” Also reacting to the development, a popular columnist and socio-political commentator, Gimba Kakanda, said the ex-minister was his most-preffered person among those gunning for Governor Abubakar Sani Bello’s seat. Kakanda’s post generated dozens of endorsements of the aspirant from his followers on the social media. He described the seasoned legal practitioner as a political maverick and disciplinarian capable of heralding change in Niger State. According to him, “Last January, I responded to a tweet curious about the options before the people of Niger State in the road to 2023, and my unnamed preferred candidate was instantly identified by a Twitter user. “A few days ago, I read that the PDP in Niger South senatorial district had agreed on a certain big-spending politician as consensus candidate, and it was quite disheartening. This, thankfully, turned out to be false. The PDP in Niger State has no consensus candidate. “The man in my tweet is Barrister Abdulrahman Hassan Gimba, a seasoned lawyer and Minister of Sports in President Umaru Yar’Adua’s government. He’s a political maverick, and arguably the most uncompromising disciplinarian I’ve ever encountered. I just read that he obtained the state’s Governorship nomination form today, and I look forward to the fireworks ahead.” Meanwhile, after picking the nomination form, the ex-minister paid a visit to a Minister of Finance during the regime of Military President, Ibrahim Babangida, Alhaji Ahmadu Abubakar Muye, to seek his blessings and advice. He equally visited Alhaji Sachi Mayaki, Dr. Tunji Olagunju and Prof. Sulaiman Adeyemi, among others.