The City College, in affiliation with Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State, has matriculated about 265 Degree and Post-Graduate Diploma in Education students for the 2020/2021 academic session. The students took the Matriculation Oath to become undergraduates of the City College, Mararaba, Nasarawa State, which is approved to run Degree programmes in Education courses in affiliation with Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State. Speaking at the matriculation ceremony held at the College Hall on Saturday, April 2, 2022, the Vice Chancellor of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, Prof. Olugbenga Ige, assured the matriculating students that all the courses on offer were fully accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC). Represented by the Dean of Education, Prof. Moshood Hassan, the Vice Chancellor cautioned the new students against anti-social vices, saying the institution would not hesitate to determine the studentship of offenders. He added that the matriculants have become students of the University, though they will take their lectures at the Mararaba campus of the College while the curriculum, examinations, grading and supervision of their course work would be diligently carried out by officers of the University. He urged them to guard their admission jealously, saying that they were among the few chosen after a fair and rigorous screenings of the many candidates who sought admission into the various courses of the Institution. The Vice Chancellor warned that, “This University has zero tolerance for anti-social vices like cultism, indecent dressing, and examination malpractices and those caught would be dealt with without fear or favour. You are here to learn and acquire skills with which to positively affect the society, therefore, we expect you to be studious and serious. “We shall cooperate with the Management of the College to ensure that all those that will teach here are qualified and well-motivated. We shall also ensure that we pay regular and unscheduled visits to ensure that you are not subjected to exploitation of any kind.” Earlier, the University Registrar, Mr. Gbenga Arajulu, had administered the Matriculation Oath on the new students. Represented by the Deputy Registrar, Academic Affairs, Barr. Grace Babalola, the Registrar urged the students to adhere strictly at all times to the oath. Present at the ceremony were the Director of the University’s Institute of Education, Dr. Olusegun Owolewa; Proprietor of the College, Pastor Amu Idogho; Provost, Mr. Edet Nkereuwem; Registrar, Mr. Idika Erukpe; Bursar, Mrs. Beatrice Soyink, and the Director of Degree Programmes, Mr. Mark Akagu, among other dignitaries from all walks of life.