The federal government has declared Monday and Tuesday, May 2 and 3, 2022 as work-free day to mark this year’s  Worker’s Day and Eid-el-Fitr celebrations. This was announced by the minister of interior,  Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, in a statement signed by the permanent secretary, Ministry of Interior, Dr. Shuaib Belgore. The minister ongratulated workers across the country on this year’s celebration, while also commending them  for their hard work, diligence and sacrifice to the nation’s growth and development. He acknowledged that their efforts were largely responsible for the greatness of the country and the respect Nigeria now commands in the comity of nations. According to Aregbesola, “Labour is the very essence of humanity. We are alive because we work and only the dead is incapable of working.” Ogbeni Aregbesola further enjoined workers to imbibe the culture of productivity, saying: “The end of work is productivity. It is productivity that leads to satisfactory provision of goods and services and wealth creation. It is therefore the path to national and individual prosperity.” He urged workers to raise the bar of their trade in line with the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration’s drive to rev up the vehicle of governance and make all the people of Nigeria derive maximum benefit from the nation. In the same vein, the federal government through the minister also congratulated all Muslims for their successful completion of the holy month of Ramadan. Aregbesola called on all Muslims to imbibe and practice the virtues of kindness, love, tolerance, peace, self-denial, sacrifice and good neighbourliness, as exemplified by the Holy Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon Him). “The self-restrain, self-denial, sacrifice and deep spiritual consciousness that accompanied the fasting period should not end but be maintained and improved upon, in order to be a better person and true worshipper,” the minister advised all Muslims. He expressed confidence that the security challenges in some parts of the country will soon be a thing of the past, noting that the government was putting determined efforts and all necessary measures in place for Nigerians to enjoy unfettered peace all round. Ogbeni Aregbesola gave the assurance that  the administration of President Buhari was fully committed to securing lives and property of every citizen and foreigners alike. The minister commended  all security agencies for the successes so far  recorded in the fight against criminality across the country, as well as the peace that has returned to the formerly embattled places. He urged Nigerians to be part of the nation’s security architecture by being vigilant and reporting suspicious individuals and activities to law enforcement agencies nearest to them, noting that security is everybody’s responsibility. Aregbesola wished all Muslims a happy Eid-ul-Fitr celebration and prayed that the peace, blessings and favours of Allah be with all.