It was all glamour and glitz as top Nigerian multinational telecommunications company, Globacom, hosted its business partners to an exquisite 2022 ‘Dealers Appreciation Gala Dinner’ where it announced over N750m worth of rewards for them in appreciation of their unwavering support. The gala night was indeed, an evening of fun and entertainment as excited partners of the company were thrilled by top musicians and comedians, including; Juju maestro, King Sunny Ade (KSA) and his African beats, the Groove Band and the duo of Godwin Komone aka Gordons and MC Forever, who all treated the guests to vintage music , comedy and wise cracks. In fact, the recipients and their well wishers who attended the ‘Appreciation Dinnercheered, danced and laughed into the late hours of the night. While King Sunny Ade serenaded the Glo’s top business partners at Eko Hotel and Suites, venue of the well appreciated event, popular comedian, Godwin Komone aka Gordons   gave the people a dose of entertainment balm warm enough to soothe any tension. the artists ,ensured lots of ‘jaw-breaking presentations and legendary display of creative comedy. The event witnessed a huge turnout of top business personalities Chairman, Globacom, Dr. Mike Adenuga Jr who was represented by Retail and Consumer Sales chief, Globacom, Mr. Ken Ogujiofor, said the event was organised to celebrate their business partners who worked assiduously with the company in its quest to make it the number one telecommunications and digital services provider in Nigeria. He explained that the event was a continuation of its rewarding tradition which among other things- upholds excellence among its treasured partners. He recalled that late last year, the multinational  Telecommunications  company announced a special incentive to further bolster its distribution reach and as well encourage its partners strive to meet it expanded goals. He said, “We are delighted to note that the reward programme was a huge success, with many of our partners achieving and surpassing the target bands set for the two categories; volume push and activations. Very shortly, we shall be presenting prizes to the winners from different parts of the country”. The dealers were effusive in their praise of Globacom which rewarded different categories of its dealers with cash prizes in form of credit notes which ran into N750m, aside other motivational incentives. A recipient, Omotade Abiola of Saxtee Communications from Lagos who was visibly elated about the monetary reward said,  “I am so happy as Globacom has shown again that it is indeed the preferred telecom company. As you can see, they take care of their dealers and customers. Another recipient, the managing director, Zeph Associates, Mr. Tochukwu Nwosu “Globacom  whose company carted home three top prizes among the category 1 dealers was full of praises Globacom. On his part, the managing director of Yarab Integrated Limited, Alhaji Mobolaji Abdulrasaq, described  Globacom’s gesture as deserving of their partnership and pledged to do more to ensure the progress and growth of the telecommunications company Festus Eze , a Kogi based partner of Glo who also got the mouth watering monetary reward, said, I  am grateful to this company . He said he has been a dealer for more than 15 years and I am happy to forge ahead with my partnership with globacom.” Innocent Nzeneri, based in Anambra State said, “When you are rewarded for what you do, it is a great thing. I have been a dealer for as long as Globacom has been in existence. It takes patience and persistence to get here,  and I make bold to charge interested partners to join the train as it is a win-win relationship”. In the same vein, CEO of Alenssar Infinity Communication,Chief Edward Emeano said, Globacom has done well by appreciating   our efforts in marketing the company’s products and services and we are truly grateful” In his presentation, Mr. Viju Unnithan of Glo’s marketing department highlighted the company’s commitment to enhancing Customer value. He added that the company’s product and services were packaged to add value to Glo subscribers. Mr. Remi Makinde of Globacom’s Network Implementation Group, presented the company’s Network Quality Enhancement plan and how it has boosted the network significantly. 