For the umpteenth time, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is bringing to the attention of Nigerians the risks involved in patronising Illegal Financial Operators (IFOs) who carry out their nefarious businesses of extorting money from unsuspecting members of the public with a promise of high yields that will remain what it is, false promise. Reiterating the warning by the apex bank’s Financial Services Regulation Coordinating Committee (FSRCC) in Akure, Ondo State, recently, the director of Corporate Communications of CBN, Mr Osita Nwanisobi, said that the increase in the activities of the Illegal Financial Operators (IFOs) which portends grave risk to public confidence and the stability of the Nigerian Financial System is becoming worrisome. Speaking at a two-day fair tagged Promoting Financial Stability and Economic Development, organised by the apex bank to enlighten Nigerians on CBN policies and interventions, the director stressed that these IFOs are not regulated by the apex bank. Dismissing these fake financial institutions as ponzi schemes, Nwanisobi maintained that as Nigerians, we have a role to play in stopping some of these institutions operating illegally and insisted that the nation must be conscious of any institution that begins to ask prospective investors to bring their money with offers of outrageously high interest rate. We recall that the CBN in April 1994 undertook to facilitate a formal framework for the co-ordination of regulatory and supervisory activities in the Nigerian financial sector by establishing the Financial Services Coordinating Committee (FSCC) to address more effectively, through consultations and regular inter-agency meetings, issues of common concern to regulatory and supervisory bodies. The danger in patronising these illegal financial institutions, in our view, is that most of them are fronts for drug-related businesses, money laundering syndicates, incorrigible tax dodgers and other similar rogue matters that negatively impact on the smooth operations of the financial systems not just in Nigeria but elsewhere in the international community. In our considered opinion, it is the responsibility of the individual to ensure that wherever they are putting their money, or whoever they are doing any financial business with, is recognised by the CBN. It is, therefore, advisable that Nigerians refrain from dealing with unlicensed or illegal financial operators, who lure and defraud unsuspecting people by offering extra-ordinary returns on investments as bait. It is from this perspective that we encourage Nigerians to report any individual or entities suspected to be involved in such nefarious activities to the law enforcement agencies just as we commend the fair in Akure which is part of the efforts by the CBN and other agencies to engage the people in regular sensitisation campaigns on the threats posed by the activities of illegal financial operators. It will be appreciated if the financial regulatory agencies sustain the tempo of the campaign to rid the society of criminals masquerading as financial operators and continue to carry out all necessary due diligence before registering or licensing any operator under their regulatory purview. In the past, the nation had been inundated with similar institutions that fed on the gullibility of get-rich- quick individuals who threw caution to the winds only to bite their fingers in regret when the deed was done and they had lost their supposed investments. In such circumstances, there had been reports of people disposing of their properties in search of an elusive wealth. In extreme cases, such investors who end up losing all they had were reported to have committed suicide. This, in our view, is avoidable if the investors educate themselves properly before taking the bait offered by these smooth operators. We are persuaded to point out that these illegal financial institutions, like the Ponzi schemes before them, are investment frauds that pay existing investors from money paid in by subsequent investors rather than from any actual profit earned from the operation of a business. The downside of these Ponzi schemes, as had been made clear by experts, is that they are not intended to generate any returns for the investors concerned but to enrich the pockets of the Ponzi schemes’ organisers. The warning by the CBN, in our opinion, flows from the disturbing implications regarding the issue of illicit financial flows (IFFS) which is at the forefront of the international agenda. Based on this, governments worldwide, are joining forces to combat money laundering, tax evasion and international bribery, which make up the bulk of the source of funds for these illegal financial operations. Curiously, in our opinion, as meticulous as the international financial system is, the enormity of these illicit operations has defied efforts to trace them to their very roots. International financial institutions and experts admit that the exact scale of the problem is unknown, yet it has devastating effects on developing countries of which Nigeria is one. That may explain why the CBN is strenuously urging Nigerians to be wary of these fraudsters who they are under obligation to report to law enforcement agencies. 