Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) remain the bedrock of every economy, Nigeria inclusive. As vital as they are, most of them are fragile to external shocks which accounts for why many SMEs die within the first three years of operation. It underscores the need for risk protection of SMEs through insurance products and services. The business of insurance entails that policyholders are brought back to the financial position they were before disaster struck and this was demonstrated during the last #EndSARS protest, as some entrepreneurs who had genuine cover were able to get claims from their insurers. In recent past, most insurers have crafted specific products for this segment of the society, ensuring that such initiatives take into considering the modus operandi and the peculiar challenges of this critical SMEs sector. Such insurance products cover: shop vandalism, business interruption, fire, flood, among other associated risks. To this end, LEADERSHIP is celebrating Leadway Assurance Company Limited and Universal Insurance Plc who both stand out in the area of innovation in product and service delivery to SMEs.  Leadway Assurance: Leading Underwriter of Business Risks One name stands out in risk underwriting in the country and that is Leadway Assurance Company Limited. Its use of the ‘Camel’ in its logo depicts strength, leadership, exception and commitment; attributes it has latched on to become the leading light in risk underwriting in Nigeria. After leading the wholesale insurance market, the insurer is rapidly flying high in the retail market of the nation’s economy by addressing the risk exposure of the SMEs. Although, insurance industry paid N11billion claims emanating from the last #EndSARS protests, Leadway is one of those companies who honoured its obligations to businesses and SMEs affected by the destruction. It is an insurer that has consistently lived up to expectation in terms of products and service deliveries as well as payment of genuine claims. Among its products that cater for the risks of businesses across the country include: LBOSS (Leadway Business Owner Support Scheme): L-Boss provides support to SMEscovering against the risk of losing your business assets. L-BOSS is comprehensive and brings your multiple business assets under one cover such that the contents of your business premises, business motor vehicle and employees are protected with an additional provision for employee medical expenses/death benefit. It is the perfect assistant to every entrepreneur. L-BOSS covers material damage to your business premises and their contents (e.g. computers, stock, items belonging to customers); Covers motor vehicle against fire, lightning, limited explosion, earthquake, volcanic eruption, malicious damage, strike, riot, flood, storm, impact and burglary (burglary cover applies to contents only) cover can extend to all your business premises. L-BOSS Comprehensive Cover (subject to an excess) – for all vehicles operated by your business against theft, damage, fire and towing cost; Provides up to N1 million worth of claims from third parties for injury and damage or death-on-service of employee; Employee medical expenses cover against medical expenses incurred by your employees as a direct result of an accident at work and; Occupier’s liability cover against legal suits relating to injury or loss suffered by visitors to your premises. Agric Insurance Cover:  Leadway’s Agricultural insurance offers cover for your farm produce, crops, poultry, fish farm, livestock, machinery and equipment etc., against losses from fire, burglary/housebreaking, lightening, flood, explosion, windstorm, impacts, earthquake, volcanic eruptions and even plane crashes. Goods-in-Transit Cover: With the Leadway Goods-in-Transit Insurance policy, there’ll be no fear of loss or theft as this policy covers you in the event of loss or damage to your goods whilst in transit by road, rail and inland motor ways. The managing director of Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale, says individuals and businesses will continue to live up to expectation, urging Nigerians to patronise the firm for exceptional products and services. Claims Payments: Leadway Assurance at the end of 2020 financial year paid N43.52 billion as claims, reconfirming its strong capacity to meet customer expectations and obligations when risk crystallises. The underwriter has total assets of N523.19 billion in 2020 financial year, from N394.77 billion the previous year, which further underscores its strength to meet liabilities now and in the future. Its gross premium income in 2020 dropped to N53.65 billion, as against N90.59 billion in 2019, largely as result of low economic activities occasioned by Covid-19 pandemic, but its realisations from investment returns lifted the bottom line that also gave shareholders course to rejoice. Leadway grew its investment income to N37.16 billion, as against N31.8 billion in 2019, while profit before tax for the year was N11.53 billion, as against N11.29 billion. It however closed the year with profit after tax of N11.31 billion, as against N10.85 billion in 2019.  Universal Insurance:  Old Wine In New Bottle The age-long belief that wine tastes better as it ages has seen Universal Insurance stood out among its peers. The insurer has experience, pedigree and good history.  Its new management has surpassed expectations by having a good imprint in the wholesale market and now deepening insurance services in the grassroots through retail insurance. Universal Insurance boasts of excellent service delivery based on a highly cerebral board, experienced and professionally tested management which leads a dedicated workforce. Ensuring perfect delivery in real time, it has over N11 billion in assets, selling eight major lines of insurance including auto, private property and commercial. With an asset base of over N11billion, authorised share capital of 16 billion units and N8 billion paid-up respectively, Universal Insurance Plc. is a duly registered organisation licenced to underwrite General Insurance business. The MD/CEO, Mr. Ben Ujoatuonu says the company is fully computerised to drive excellence in service delivery, providing peace of mind to clients and enriching quality of life through partnership in the management of the risks they face.  Innovative Products Accidental Damage Protection: This policy provides insurance coverage to electrical/electronics dealerships and their customers who may subscribe to the e-channel protection scheme. Its area of coverage includes: Falling/Dropping off of items insured from a position where it was originally placed and crashing; An object falling on the electronics and damaging it; Damage as a result of fire; Damage to screen; Damage occurring while in transit or during relocation or while dismantling for the purpose of cleaning, repairing and overhauling. Shop Insure: The policy pays you for goods lost or damaged by fire, thieves and robbers(burglars); rent lost for the period your shop was not in use as a result of the fire incident as well as medical treatment for injury sustained during a fire or burglary or robbery incident at the insured premises. With N2,000 annual premium, you are entitled to between N50,000 and N200,000 claims under the Bronze category while the Silver category demands N3,000 annual premium with a coverage that hovers between N75,000 and N300,000 while N5,000 premium on Gold category will make you claim between N100,000 and N500,000. This policy targetssupermarket, individual, association, shop owner, market and shopping plaza. Livestock Insurance: This cover provides compensation in the event of injury or death to the animals named in the schedule resulting from accident, suchas: Illness, Storm, Fire, Flood. Lightening, Theft, while diseases will be covered if this occurs after appropriate vaccination had been administered to the animals. Okada Pass: Universal insurance was the first company to launch the first ever insurance product called Okada Personal Assurance & Safety Scheme (Okada Pass) For okada riders. There are several other products that are currently making inroad in the wholesale and retail end of the market. Claims Payment & Process In the last three years, Universal Insurance Plc has paid N17.4 million as claims to 93 claimants. In 2019 financial year, N658,655 claims were paid to three claimants; N5.7 million paid in 2020 while N11.1million was paid to 51 claimants in the 2021 financial year. On claims payment procedure, the insurer advises its policyholders to kickstart the process quickly as events are likely to give rise to claims. “Claim is reported by direct reporting type/handwriting such as letters or e-mail, fax, social site or website. Claim could be reported orally by Telephone call, text messages. Where claims notification (or an incident that may give rise to claims) is received by an intermediary, (Broker or agent) such notification shall immediately but not later than 30 days be transmitted to the Insurance Company,” it pointed out. After this, the underwriter said, it must acknowledge the receipt of the notification and then request for documents while at the same time advising the insured on measures to take.