He described the firm as one of the best construction companies in the world because of its resource capacity, approach to projects and commitment to the development of its operating environment. The Turkish firm currently handles the construction of Smart Terminal building at the Victor Attah international Airport, Uyo, the state capital. It is known for the 21-smart storey-building among other key buildings and road constructions in the state. While inspecting projects at the airport during the weekend, Emmanuel said VKS is reputed to adhere and sometimes go beyond procurement demands by not relying totally on government payments before delivering on projects. He said, “We have never rated VKS low. They are one of the best in the world. When you talk about capacity, it is not just in the ability of Civil, Electrical or mechanical engineers to work. It is how friendly the contractors are; friendly in the sense that there are certain contractors that “it is only money for hand, back for ground.” “But here we have a contractor that has the capacity to bring in materials without sitting on your neck to get cash for each item. For the years they have worked, we have seen that VKS has that capacity across the globe to mobilise and also get things done with ease. “A lot of containers you have seen here are not yet paid for by the State Government but we have over 58 containers on ground. We are trying to work on how to pay and they trust us that this is one State and leadership that we can create money. We don’t need to pay in cash but we can create money.” The governor said the reason his administration has found it comfortable and easy to work with VKS stems from their credible attitude and approach to contract evidenced in the high quality of their deliverables since they berthed the State. “These people can invest up to N10 billion in this project without asking me for a dime. That shows trust, capacity and collaboration for the development of the people. I think I am happy with them.” On his part, the project manager of VKS Nigeria Construction Limited, Mr Ziya Sungur, said the major structural works at the terminal building have been completed and is left with furnishing with the required fittings for smart operations.   