On Monday, March 28, a train conveying about 362 passengers from Kaduna to Abuja, the Nigerian capital, came under ruthless attack by armed men suspected to be terrorists.  The gunmen attacked with unprecedented ferocity for about 2 hours after they used Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) to blow up the rail tracks and got the train to stop before carrying out their dastardly act. Deaths and injuries trailed that attack as 8 people were reported dead, 26 sustained varying degrees of injuries while scores of others are still missing or presumed to be kidnapped by the terrorists. Among the dead was the Secretary General of the Trade Union Congress (TUC) Comrade Musa Ozigi and a young medical doctor Chinelo Megafu among others. The Nigerian government in their routine attitude condemned the act and again assured that the perpetrators will be brought to book. However, the international community paid attention to the sad development and rose in fury to denounce the act. United Nations (UN) Secretary General, Antonio Guterres condemned the attack in a statement saying “We don’t have all the figures of missing persons, kidnapped and those injured at the moment. The numbers we have is that there are eight casualties. There are about 41 persons in different hospitals and the total number of passengers who got tickets are 398,’’ he said. Guterres in the statement, extended his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, wished a prompt recovery to the wounded, and called for the immediate release of those abducted. LEADERSHIP had reported that the secretary-general urged the Nigerian authorities to spare no effort in bringing those responsible for these crimes to justice. He reaffirmed the solidarity and support of the United Nations to the Government and people of Nigeria in their fight against terrorism, violent extremism, and organised crime. In the same vein, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Commission expressed shock at  the terrorist attack. The Commission in a statement  strongly condemned the terrorist attack in all its ramifications and expressed deep sympathy with the Government and the People of Nigeria and the families of victims. The Commission prayed for the speedy recuperation of the injured, the release of those kidnapped while expressing confidence that the perpetrators of the dastardly acts would be arrested and made to face the law. “The Commission would like to assure the Government and the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria of our strong and unshakeable solidarity in our collective efforts towards tackling terrorism and other forms of violent extremism,” the statement said. Monday’s attack was preceded by an attack on Kaduna airport a week earlier where one person was shot dead by terrorists. About six months ago precisely in November 2021, when terrorists attacked the Abuja-Kaduna train deploying explosives on the track and forced the train to stop at Rijana community in Kaduna, the government promised that such an incident would not occur again as it was putting in place security devices to ensure the train transport system is safe for passengers. But there seems to be no coordinated efforts by the  Nigerian government to tame these atrocious acts. But beyond the international condemnation, the world and regional bodies must rise to help Nigeria fight this menace mainly carried out by the Boko Haram insurgents and allied groups such as the Islamic State In West Africa (ISWAP). These groups have contributed to the death of nearly 100,000 people and the displacement of the over 2.5 million in Nigeria in the last 13 years. It has become incumbent on all concerned organizations and groups to develop a roadmap against terrorism and violent extremism and perhaps deploy the latest technology to address this seemingly interminable scourge in Nigeria and other parts of  West Africa. Speaker of the ECOWAS Parliament, Dr. Sidie Mohammed Tunis recently made this call on members of the ECOWAS Parliament to consider the merits of technological advancements, innovations and intelligence as tools to curb by violent extremism and terrorism in the region. The Speaker gave the challenge in his remarks during the opening session of the de-localised meeting of the Joint Committee on Political Affairs, Peace, Security and African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM), Legal Affairs and Human Rights and Telecommunications and Information Technology of the ECOWAS Parliament, that held in Winneba, Ghana, from July 27 to 30, 2021. He argued that evidence, after all, shows that societies mired in violent conflict are often characterised by lack of development and shortage of economic opportunities. “So, we must strive for the return of peace in our region as it remains the key component to sustainable development,” he said. The international community must rise to the occasion to help West Africa with the needed technology to curb this menace that is rapidly taking monstrous dimension. However, the Nigerian government must demonstrate the political will to address the issues. Government attitude in recent times had allegedly shown some sloppiness in the way this menace is being handled. This was displayed when a visibly disturbed Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi blamed the attack on Federal Government’s lack of proactivness in providing needed technology to man the rail tracks. He said installation of security sensors was delayed because of rigorous procurement process. “The process is tedious, the approval is also tedious, we have not been able to get that approval that will lead to purchase of those items. If those items were here, drones alone will tell you that there are people around the rail tracks because there are drones, there are equipment that pick sensors if you touch the track. “But unfortunately, the process has not been able to get us that approval for us to import those items. So for me, I am devastated and honestly I don’t know what to tell Nigerians anymore,” he said. It is instructive that about N3.7 billion was earlier needed to procure the needed technology equipment but approval was not given. Right now the damage done to the rail tracks and the train may require about N10 billion to repair according to some sources. An ICT expert, Hanniel Jafaru, who was a guest on LEADERSHIP podcast on Wednesday, said that “Nigeria must provide the right surveillance technology and strategies on the deployment of different technologies.” He noted that Nigeria must “deploy monitoring drones that can fly as low as the tracks and detect any threat and then pass it on to a central server where analysis can be done with the help of artificial intelligence.” He also suggested the use of armed drones that are equipped with the devices to attack any threat, adding that the Nigerian Navy has such equipment, with which they tackle the issues of see piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. He also advocated for more armed security personnel to escort the trains. Jafaru said further that Nigeria can only overcome this security situation by investing in modern technology and also trying to do research to develop indigenous technology that will give the nation self-sufficiency. 