A Metropolitan Police officer is currently facing a misconduct hearing after appearing on a Nigeria’s reality TV show, BigBrother Naija in 2019, without gaining prior permission from her employer.  PC Khafilat Kareem is currently answering allegations that her conduct amounts to a breach of the Met’s Standards of Professional Behaviour after defying bosses who rejected her request to appear on the show.  The five-day hearing that started on Monday and is due to close on Friday comes two-and-a-half years after the officer went on leave to travel to Nigeria where she participated in the reality TV programme.  In a press statement the Met said that although the officer had been given permission to go on leave, permission to participate on the show was not granted.  The Met said: “In June 2019 PC Kareem left the UK and without permission took her work laptop with her. In July 2019 PC Kareem began participation on the TV show and surrendered her work laptop to the show’s organisers.  “After returning to the UK, PC Kareem failed to declare a business interest in relation to publicity and promotion of the TV show. It is alleged that PC Kareem’s conduct has breached the Standards of Professional Behaviour in respect of, Orders & Instructions and Discreditable Conduct.”  According to a BBC report, the officer, who has over 1.4m followers on Instagram, had texted and called Deputy Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist, one of the Met’s most senior officers, and asked him to reverse the order just hours before she appeared on the show “without authority”. She lasted 77 days before being evicted from the Big Brother house.  On the first day of the hearing at the Empress Building in West London on Monday, PC Kareem also admitted to surrendering her work laptop to the show’s organisers, but she denied allegations of breaching standards in respect of “orders and instructions” and “discreditable conduct”, the BBC reported. The officer also denied an allegation that she failed to declare a business interest in relation to publicity and promotion of the TV show.  Speaking at the tribunal, Anne Studd QC reportedly said: “Having seen the UK episodes of the show, concerns were raised. But, PC Kareem said Naija (Nigerian Big Brother) was not like the UK version. She saw it as a chance to promote the Met on an international basis.  “Looking at the website and information provided, Ch Supt Jason Gwillim concluded it was not in the best interests of the Met or the officer and it would put her in a compromising situation. He explained the rationale and stressed she was not to take part in the show.  “Gwillim’s impression was that PC Kareem was disappointed but understood. She took the period of unpaid leave.”  Also speaking at the tribunal, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist said he had “never been faced with these circumstances before” and felt it was “most unusual” a PC was contacting someone of his rank on a weekend.  He said: “I got the impression she was phoning hoping I would change the decision. I got the fact she was in Nigeria. I got the strong sense she was going to do it, but she did not say as much.”  He added: “I was worried about her mental health, we have no ability to support or intervene in the Big Brother house. We had no idea what security was in place around the Big Brother house and something awful could happen there or she could be targeted as a serving constable.  “Over the years a number of people who come out of the Big Brother house are reported in the media to have suffered mental health issues. Knowing the UK version, this is something we wouldn’t want a serving officer appearing on.”  The tribunal later heard that PC Kareem went to see a psychologist after the show following her eviction from the Big Brother house due to the “adverse” media attention she had received afterwards. The tribunal is ongoing.