Insanity they say is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. Nigeria is passing through its worst security challenge since Independence instigated by terrorists and a change of tactics is needed to win this seemingly intractable war against terrorism. We recall that a frustrated Kaduna State governor, Nasir El- Rufai had disclosed that they had intelligence that terrorists were planning an attack on the Kaduna- Abuja train and even intercepted some calls from the terrorists. He also indicted the Nigerian military for not doing enough and has vowed to hire foreign mercenaries to fight against terrorists following the Monday night attack. The Kaduna state governor dropped the hint that four others of the seven Northwestern states—Katsina, Zamfara, Kebbi, Sokoto—may join him to hire foreign mercenaries if the Federal Government did not end the ongoing spate of terror attacks in the region. As a newspaper, we are concerned that the security agencies are always reacting to attacks by these criminals. This disposition is beginning to give credence to allegations of complicity of some rogue elements within the nation’s security architecture. Or even worse, that they are scared of taking the battle to the enemy territory. Whatever is the case, Nigerians are of the view that the security agencies are not doing the best they are capable of in the fight against enemies of the society. Most recently, and despite assurances from the military and a show of force by the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, terrorists killed no fewer than 17 soldiers and three vigilantes during an attack on a military base in Polewire, Birnin Gwari Local Government of Kaduna State. Not counting the injured and military equipment destroyed. Not to be misunderstood, we stand by the security agencies and we believe in their capability to defeat the bloodthirsty terrorists. That is why we insist on more drastic measures against these criminals which will entail a redefinition of tactics and methodology aimed at beating the criminals in their own game. One step in this direction is to identify the bad eggs in the security agencies who are colluding with the terrorists to undermine the country. These traitors, as we perceive them, must be fished out and punished. It can only evoke sad feelings that a security agent or politician would for pecuniary or political gains compromise national security by either fraternising with or sponsoring terrorists. Furthermore, it is our considered opinion, that the agencies must of necessity review their recruitment processes which have, of late, being hugely politicised. Under this scenario, undesirable elements, on the recommendation of highly placed individuals, have found their way into the military and other paramilitary outfits. The result is what is going on where security agents are alleged to be acting in cahoots with criminals. We are also worried that most of the kidnappings on the Kaduna-Abuja Road and the deadly train attack happened at the Rijana stretch of the road. This road and the train tracks area cover approximately 30km. We find it curious that such a small space can be remotely considered as ungoverned. Meanwhile, the terrorists who bombed the Abuja-Kaduna train have explained why they struck. They spoke in a video shortly before releasing the Managing Director of Bank of Agriculture (BOA) Alwan Ali-Hassan. Zamfara: Bandits Kill DIG Tsafe’s Son, 3 Others The terrorists, in the one-minute, 21 seconds video, said they did not attack the Kaduna-bound train because of ransom but to press home a particular demand from the government. They threatened to kill the rest of the passengers in their captivity if the government did not hasten up in meeting their demands. If we understand these terrorists well, they are asking to negotiate with the government on these demands. This must not be allowed to happen for the simple reason that it is, at the same time, defeatist and counter-productive. We have, consistently, argued on this page against negotiating with terrorists or attempting to accede to their demands and succumbing to their cheap blackmail.  It is our opinion that this is the time for the government to demonstrate its powers and reassure Nigerians that the state is alive to its duties and responsibilities. It is gratifying to note, in our view, that the federal government has dismissed insinuations that it is overwhelmed by the worsening insecurity pervading the country. Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, explained that even when the security agencies are able to identify where the bandits are, sometimes, out of fear of collateral damage to the innocent civilians, they choose the time they want to strike. It is from this perspective that we call on the military to change their tactics in this war against the terrorists who seem to be having an upper hand for now. The military should take the battle to the terrorists who may be using the rural folks as human shield. This is where the use of technology is important. We are convinced that the deployment of sophisticated technology will aid, with pin-point accuracy, the sorting out of the position of the terrorists so as to neutralise them.