The minister of communication and digital economy, Prof. Isa Pantami has reiterated the commitment of the federal government to ensure that the requisite strategies, standards, guidelines and frameworks for the successful deployment of the fifth generation (5G) networks across the country are in place. This he revealed in Lagos, at the Policy Implementation Assisted Forum (PIAFo), through the principal manager, spectrum administration department, NCC, Joseph Emeshili, on national policy on 5G technology, themed, ‘Ascertaining Full Readiness to Make 5G Work in Nigeria.’
In November 2019, the country set in motion a trial of 5G development after it got presidential approval and was followed by the minister making presentations to the legislators on 5G, to allay fears and unconfirmed stories around the 5G network and its suitability in the country. According to Pantami, it is important to
note that the 5G policy document aligns with other policies of the government and said the ministry will support its Implementation. Some of these policies are the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) for Digital Nigeria, the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP 2020- 2025) and the National Policy for the Promotion of Indigenous Content in the Nigeria Telecommunications sector. “Toensurethattherequiredinfrastructure needed for successful deployment of networks such as data centres, power are catered for in the deployment strategies of 5G Networks, the federal government shall ensure that the requisite strategies, standards, guidelines and frameworks for the successful deployment of the networks across the country are in place,” Pantami said. On his part, the executive vice-chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, who was represented by the head of spectrum
administration department, NCC, Abraham Oshadame, said NCC would continue with the responsibility of providing a robust regulatory framework that ensures adequate readiness for the uptake of emerging International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) technologies in Nigeria. “This is evident in the efforts NCC have demonstrated in the smooth uptake of previous technologies such as 2G, 3G, 4G, and the one we are now implementing to ensure the smooth uptake of 5G technology. We believe for this to come to fruition, policymakers, regulators and the network operators must synergize to guarantee success, “ Danbatta said.
In his remarks, the lead executive PIAFo, Omobayo Azeez, said the policy on 5G is the blueprint Nigeria has developed to tap from the global economic value of the technology estimated at $13.2 trillion. He said 5G technology promises more than just GDP accretion, it is an enabler of socio-economic advancement that will positively reshape every aspect