Landwey investment, Nigeria’s foremost real estate investment company, and developers of the first Lifestyle and Wellness city in Nigeria, Isimi Lagos, has revealed its Isimi 2030 Master plan as it kicks off the colossal infrastructural project estimated at $142 million. This announcement was made at the symposium recently organised and held at LandWey headquarters on Tuesday.  The event started with a video reveal introduction detailing the Isimi Lagos Project, closely followed by acomprehensive discussion with the guests in attendance. The remarkable event which attracted industry players featured the official signing of the infrastructure partnership between Landwey and Zenith Construction Ltd ably represented by its Chairman, Antoine Moudaber. This collaboration will see the birth of numerous residential opportunities for the real estate ecosystem in Nigeria and beyond. Group CEO, Oxygen Holdings, parent company of Landwey Investments, Olawale Ayilara said, “The first leg of Infrastructural developments has been signed off with the key contractor and constructions are set to begin closely. Presently, we have about 250 citizens vested interest in the potentials of the Isimi Lagos project and we are more than excited to kick-start. We are hopeful that this initial phase of the project will enable us commence allocations for reserved slots before the second quarter of 2023.” He said Isimi Lagos is positioned such that nature, functionality and technology are encircled in one as part of its Vision 2030 plan aimed at increasing family spend on recreation and also launching a handful of eco-friendly living options in the city for residents and tourists. Isimi, a word derived from its Yoruba origin, means rest or peace of mind. carefully chosen because it best captures the experience that Isimi Lagos represents. The nature inspired model of Isimi not only lays the foundation for night-time economic development of the Lagos metropolis but also hints at futuristic prospects of turning Nigeria into a new international destination on the continent’s tourist map. Recent additions to cluster options are: Origin One, The Village, Green Life colony, The Emergence, all of which offers both work and living spaces fortified with high-speed internet and uninterrupted power supply to boost the efficiency of the residents, and an eco-friendly transportation system- such as hybrid electric vehicles and bicycles, great for an active lifestyle. Other captivating features of the Isimi Lagos project includes and are not limited to: conservation park, Golf Course, recreational centre, Tech Valley, Helipad, Forestry, farm shop, spa, Hiking paths, gym facilities and a standard polo turf with a stable that houses some of the world’s best horses, providing a state-of-the-art riding experience. Isimi Lagos offers an array of options for family-oriented activities such as kayaking, picnics and outdoor play dates with its all-natural lake which can be used for family friendly functions and recreational purposes.