All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant and leader of the Middlebelt Presidency agitations, Moses Ayom, yesterday insisted that he will only withdraw from the race to support an aspirant from his region. The presidential aspirant also alleged that there is a plot within the leading political parties to use expense nomination forms to scare away leaders from the Middlebelt from contesting the presidency. Ayom, in a statement, further charged the national chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Abdullahi Adamu and Iyorchia Ayu, respectively to see their election as God’s intervention to halt decades of injustice, unfairness and political marginalisation against the Middlebelt. According to him the people of the Middlebelt had suffered from serious neglect and deprivation and as such would not be able to afford such unreasonable fees for nomination forms. He warned the party to be mindful not to take any decisions that will further disenfranchise the zone. Ayom announced his readiness to sacrifice his presidential ambition for any of the Middlebelt leaders particularly the chairmen of the two leading political parties should they indicate interest in running for the Presidency in 2023. Ayom charged Adamu to use his office to entrench equity, fairness and justice as a guiding principle while also reminding him to act strictly in compliance with the directive of President Buhari that the ticket should not be handed over to the highest bidder. According to Ayom, “The emergence of the chairmen of the two leading political parties from the Middlebelt does not in any way solve the problem of political marginalisation against the region for decades. “It is not an accident that God chose two Middlebelt leaders to be chairmen of the two leading political parties. The Almighty God has vested in their hands the power to use their influence to insist on zoning of presidency to the Middlebelt to compensate for decades of marginalisation, oppression, cheating, molesting, raping, kidnappings and forceful take away of our farmlands, thereby causing abject poverty, starvation and mental slavery which is worse than leg-chain slavery” He said that “In terms of knowledge and experience and being from the Middlebelt that has been reduced to a dust bin by the other regions by way of power sharing, the two chairmen are hereby urged to hand over to their deputies and come out for presidency in their respective parties because I know that God will crown one of them.” Ayom announced his readiness to sacrifice his presidential ambition for any of the Middlebelt leaders saying “I will hand over the baton bestowed on me by the interfaith to Run for presidency come 2023.” “The whole idea is that as it is now, out of respect, I stand to stand down for them should they want to answer the call of their ancestors like JS Tarka, Awoniyi etc. I am asking the two chairmen to step down and hand over to their deputies who are capable and join me to wrestle power from our oppressors” Ayom said. He however called on former governors Jolly Iyame of Taraba State and Joshua Dariye, who were recently granted State Pardon to join the presidential race for the actualisation of the Middlebelt Presidency. Commending President Muhammadu Buhari and the Council of state for the gesture, Ayom said the two leaders of the Middlebelt suffered the fate because they were minorities pointing out that many more from larger ethnic groups stole even more but were not sent to jail. Ayom personally thanked the Malami-led committee that recommended the granting of amnesty to the Council of State which approved amnesty to political prisoners as he called them. Quoting a verse in the bible he challenged any person with dissenting voice against the amnesty to cast a stone if he does not have a sin. Ayom said the amnesty is well deserved adding that Dariye and Jolly Iyame were jailed because they were minorities coupled with the fact that they did not have the financial muscle to hire notable and reputable SANs to defend themselves. He charged the pardoned men to quickly join the race for the 2023 presidency without wasting time saying “the more the merrier for the minorities so that head or tail we coast home with victory having either the presidency or Vice presidency.” He said “No amount of carrot is equal in exchange for these decades of political slavery that the Middlebelt has been subjected,” the aspirant added. Ayom reminded Ayu of his days of fighting against the Federal might and the political power that be against the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential elections and charged him to use those principles to fight for the actualization of the Middlebelt Presidency in 2023. “I am also reminding Ayu of his Marxist’s theories against capitalism. Ayu must stick to those principles which he said were based on his rigid stand on equity, fairness and justice. “He must not bend in any way no matter the pressure by capitalists,” Ayom said. He urged Ayu to stand up and use those ideologies to fight for the Middlebelt now that they are most needed in his fatherland, the Middlebelt On his capacity and competence, Ayom once again challenged the Osinbajos,the Peter Obis, the Atikus, the Wikes, the Amaechis and Yahaya Bellos,etc to a pre primary election debate on national television for Nigerians to know who has what it takes to navigate the country from total collapse. He reminded them to come to the debate with their qualifications like Fitness/health/mental certificate of clearance from a reputable Federal Government owned hospital, and a completed asset declaration form. The aspirant had vowed to use all his contacts and contents which he said are valued in billions of dollars to enhance the performance of his administration if elected President in 2023 Ayom, who also invited the former Benue State Governor, Senator George Akume, to join the push for the actualization of Middlebelt Presidency, urged him to deploy the same strength deployed against “third term” in the current fight for Middlebelt Presidency. To incumbent Benue state Governor, Samuel Ortom, the aspirant sought the deployment of energy, fiber and traditional tactics coupled with the holy spirit in him as a true man of God, to make sure that the Middlebelt gets the Presidency in 2023. “Ortom should demonstrate his strong faith in equity, fairness and justice to make sure that this time around the Middlebelt does not suffer marginalisation and injustice. Ortom served as the chairman of the PDP’s zoning committee. Ayom called on the former Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, Professor Armstrong Adeojo in Benue State University, not forgetting Plateau State governor, Samuel Lalong, to join the fight. He also called on Reverend Father, Iormem Alia, who is a leading gubernatorial hopeful in Benue State under APC to support the Middlebelt Presidency fight. “As a father of healing powers, Alia should use those powers and prayers to secure and heal the Middlebelt of injustice and marginalisation and cement the zoning of the presidency to the Middlebelt in 2023. He also called on Dino Melaye to join the fight. Others invited to join the fight include the Minister of Environment, Mohammed Abubakar. He is one of the upcoming Middlebelt political leaders. The commissioner of Works in Plateau State is also invited to join the fight. 