 A man, identified as Alfred Ayo, who claimed he is the father of a child allegedly missing from Christ Mercy Land Church in Warri, Delta State, has said his child was only being used for business and not missing. He equally accused his estranged wife, Ruth, of selling their child with her boyfriend. In a video making the rounds on the social media, Ayo insisted that his wife and her boyfriend knew the whereabouts of his son, who he identified as Testimony. Before now, the said Ruth had alleged that the Pastor of the Christ Mercy Land Church, Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin, kidnapped one of her sons after she brought four of them to the church. Although the Nigeria Police Force had dismissed the allegation, stating that it “was inconsistent with the truth while the matter is also in the court of law.” Also, th founder of Abuja-based Human Rights Radio, Ordinary Ahmed Isa, on his popular human rights show, Brekete Family, who was at some point investigating the matter earlier this month, slammed Ruth and her supporters over the case of the alleged missing child. Isa, while speaking during a live programme on the radio station, said he won’t be used in pulling down anyone, stressing that the station would not be involved in cases that have no iota of truth. Reacting to the development, Isa popularly known as Ordinary President, said the woman who brought up the case could not substantiate her claims and was also looking for ways to use the opportunity to move abroad. While some people had accused the station of being bribed into dropping the case, Isa said most of the people accusing the station were only looking for cheap publicity and that he would have rather continue the case if they are able to substantiate the allegations.   The development, which came up about three years ago resurfaced recently as some pastors and NGO stood up to seek justice. The development had led the church to file a suit in court over the issue, stating that there was need to put final stop to the matter. The father of the said child, Ayo, who spoke at the court premises, said he only realised what was going on after his attention was drawn to some publication on the internet about the case. While appealing for government’s intervention over the matter, Ayo noted that his wife and her boyfriend knew the whereabouts of the child. Ayo alleged that his wife also ran away with his money, adding that he needed help in recovering her and his money.I