Winning a FIFA World Cup is definitely the biggest achievement that any individual can make in the world of football. Whenever one of these competitions is being played, visiting the betting sites in Ghana – 1xbet.com.gh can be an excellent idea.  Claiming this title either as a player or as a coach is a really huge achievement. However, there have been only three people who have won the competition in both forms. These names include:   Brazilian Mario Zagallo was the first person to achieve this incredible feat. In total, it is possible to attribute four out of the five FIFA World Cups won by Brazil to him. He was a player in the 1958 and 1962 editions. After that, he was the coach of the squad that won the 1970 edition. Finally, he also was an assistant coach in the 1994 edition. The portal 1xBet Ghana, which is a great betting site in the country, features all the matches of the Brazilian team. Mario Zagallo played professionally between 1951 and 1965. He played only in two teams, which were Flamengo and Botafogo. All the squads of the Brazilian league are featured on the http://1xbet.com.gh/line website. While being a Flamengo player he was called for the Brazilian national squad that participated in the 1958 FIFA World Cup.  In total, Zagallo played 33 matches for the Brazilian national team, scoring 5 goals in the process. He was later selected for the 1962 FIFA World Cup, also claiming the title. These two achievements would have been enough to make Zagallo a true legend. However, as it will be discussed later, he would continue winning titles of this kind. A great place to enjoy and wager on the FIFA World Cup is the 1xBet platform. Zagallo began his coaching career with his beloved Botafogo. When getting the 1xBet app download for Android and iPhone, it will be possible to immediately start betting on all football teams from Brazil. However, in 1970 he was given a monumental task. In that year, he was approached by the Brazilian football federation in order to coach the team in the FIFA World Cup of that same year. Of course, he accepted the job, and he won another incredible title.  In 1991, and after coaching various other teams in between, Zagallo was appointed as a coordinator of the Brazilian national team. He also served as an assistant to head coach Carlos Alberto Parreira in the same competition. Once again, he was part of another Brazilian squad who won a FIFA World Cup. All these major football competitions are available to bet once downloading the 1xBet app for Android and iPhone devices. 