Stanbic IBTC Trustees, a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings, has reiterated that, setting up a Trust with the organisation ensures the seamless transfer of assets and reduces the challenges associated with assets transfer. The services accessible to clients of Stanbic IBTC Trustees include; Facility Agent, which ensures seamless disbursement and repayments in club lending arrangements while ensuring all other loan conditions stand. These conditions, according to the firm, are Security Trustee, which allows Stanbic IBTC Trustees to hold in trust the security for a loan while also monitoring the assessed value of such security against loan exposure. Stanbic IBTC Escrow Agent allows Stanbic IBTC Trustees to hold funds and documents in escrow for the transacting parties. Furthermore, the organisation has an Estate Planning bouquet that encompasses asset acquisition, asset management, and asset transfer, and it is structured using tools, such as; Wills and Trusts. Amongst them is the Stanbic IBTC Educational Trust (SET) which assists parents and guardians in providing quality education for their children and wards. Through the service, parents have an opportunity to make contributions towards funding the education of their children, whether it is primary, secondary, tertiary or even post-graduate education. Speaking on the benefits customers stand to gain, the chief executive, Stanbic IBTC Trustees, Charles Omoera, noted that, the organisation’s Trust solutions are geared at helping individuals run effective businesses with peace of mind and plan their Estates to ensure successful and seamless transfer of assets to their future generation. “The importance of Estate Planning cannot be over-emphasised. It provides for and protects our loved ones and their interests. Through the use of Wills and Trusts, these interests are protected from obnoxious practices, and family squabbles or financial challenges that may arise after the passing of the Testator are minimised. “As an organisation committed to global risk management and world-class corporate governance, Stanbic IBTC Trustees ensures that Clients enjoy unparalleled risk management, based on tried and trusted practices built on its the organisation’s renowned culture of trust, confidentiality and integrity,” he said. Omoera also noted that, with the company’s wealth of experience and expertise across developed markets globally, the firm has continued to offer stellar services across different jurisdictions with integrity and transparency. He stated that Stanbic IBTC Trustees remains committed to providing innovative and customer-focused financial solutions to Nigerians with its sound financial standing. He urged everyone to visit the company website to learn more about Estate Planning and the available tools, and thereafter sign up to a simple or comprehensive plan that would help them do business with peace of mind and seamlessly transfer their wealth and leave a legacy for their loved ones. 