The Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Hon. Folasade Adefisayo, has commended MTN Foundation’s scholarship programme for outstanding Nigerian students. Adefisayo gave the commendation in Lagos on Friday during the 2021 MTN Foundation Scholarship Award and Induction Ceremony, which held at the MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos. In her special address, delivered by the Director, Science and Technology, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Grace Akinfoyewa, the commissioner described the initiative as a right step in the right direction in the pursuit of academic excellence for Nigerian students. According to her, the Foundation has shown commitment to improving communities through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. “I sincerely appreciate the MTN Foundation for this impactful CSR project, especially in Lagos State. Indeed, this laudable initiative of awarding scholarships to young students is highly commendable for its derivable opportunities and how it aids the pursuit of academic excellence of the science and physically challenged students. “On behalf of Lagos State I happily appreciate MTN Foundation, organisers of this initiative and wish them the best as we collaborate towards adding value to the education sector of our state and nation,” she said. Also present at the event was Senior Special Assistant on Education to the Governor of Lagos State, Adetola Salau. She described MTN Foundation as a beacon of hope and went further to acknowledge “MTN Foundation’s commitment to empowering youth and promoting academic excellence in public institutions through the scholarships.” MTN Scholarships, under the Youth Development Cause of MTN Foundation, is an annual award that seeks to recognize and reward qualified high performing students in Nigerian public tertiary institutions. This year, MTN Foundation awarded 370 scholarships to outstanding Nigerian students. Three hundred students received the MTN Science and Technology Scholarship; 60 Students received the MTN Scholarship for Blind Students and the top 10 UTME candidates in 2021, received scholarships as well. In her opening remarks, while speaking to recipients of the MTN Scholarships, Executive Secretary, MTN Foundation, Odunayo Sanya said hundreds of thousands of students applied for the scholarships and only the best of the best were selected. “Ours is a scholarship that celebrates the spirit of excellence. It is a call to do more. Whenever you feel down, always remember that every year the Foundation receives hundreds of thousands of applications and you made it as a scholar,” she said. Chief Marketing Officer, MTN Nigeria, Adia Sowho who gave a keynote address at the ceremony, encouraged the scholars to continue to take risks and strive for success irrespective of failures. She said, “I love failing because within failure is a lesson that better prepares you for tomorrow. When you fail, be upset for five minutes, find the lesson, pick your feet up, and move on. Recognize failure for the tool that it is.” It is worthy of note that the MTN Foundation has awarded over N3bn in scholarships to 4,212 students from inception to date. Upon graduation, each scholar takes part in the MTNF Skill Up Training to ensure they are well equipped to compete and add value to Nigeria’s labour market. They are also exposed to other opportunities for training and certification from notable organizations such as Project Management Institute (PMI). Graduate scholars are also provided with information regarding job opportunities and other information of importance to their careers.