Africa’s biggest humanitarian, Aliko Dangote has continued to show its readiness and commitment to transforming the economy and impacting people. Dangote investment drive across the African continent has described him as a man with a mission to aggressively transform the African economy. Dangote, at 65, remains grand, like the nurturant custodian, whose tenderness and warmth blesses the land. Celebrating Dangote, President Muhammadu Buhari commended Dangote for his economic contributions to Nigeria, saying, ‘He set an example that charity begins from home.’ The president said this in his birthday message to the chairman and chief executive officer of Dangote Group on his 65th birthday, according to a statement from the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina. “As Alhaji Dangote turns 65, President Buhari affirms the footprints of the consummate businessman in key sectors of the economy, and the remarkable results achieved in production and supply of food items, making him a household name. More recently, his dynamism in buoying the economy through heavy investments in building Africa’s largest refinery, fertiliser manufacturing company, and cement factories,” the statement read. “Buhari appreciates the patriotism, simplicity, and wisdom that Dangote has consistently displayed, making Nigeria and Nigerians his first priority, while setting (an) example for many that charity truly begins from home.” He said Dangote is one of the visionary leaders that have redefined the livelihood of Nigerians for the better. Alhaji Aliko Dangote represents what African businessmen should be. He is an example for aspiring entrepreneurs across the continent. Start small, aim very high, identify and take advantage of opportunities. Do not be discouraged by challenges. Give, and give generously to help others make progress. With a net worth of $12.1 billion in 2021, the business mogul retained his seat on the Forbes list as Africa’s wealthiest man, a comfy position he has held for nearly a decade. Dangote has not only been known as African richest man but one of the world philanthropists. Dangote has continued to use his resources to help shape a better Nigeria and Africa in general. Through his Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF), Dangote has remained an exemplary giver, and a great contributor to the betterment of humanity across Africa. The Foundation, which has an endowment of $1.25 billion has given more than $100 million over the past years to support health, education, empowerment, and humanitarian relief. The Dangote Foundation is the Corporate Social Responsibility arm of Dangote Group. Incorporated in 1993 as Dangote Foundation, with the mission to enhance opportunities for social change through strategic investments that improve health and wellbeing, promote quality education, and broaden economic empowerment opportunities. The Foundation has in 28 years, become the largest private Foundation in sub-Saharan Africa, through its largest endowment by a single African donor. The main objective of ADF is to reduce the number of lives lost yearly to malnutrition and disease. This is why the core thrust of the Foundation is improving the outcome of children’s lives by combating Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) in children. This focus on children, forms the basis for the Foundation’s engagement, using its investments in health, education, and economic empowerment to help lift people out of poverty. With an avowed passion to lift the less-privileged out of poverty, Dangote, the manufacturing giant, created the Aliko Dangote Foundation as a vehicle for his Philanthropy. His business conglomerate runs Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by business unit. focusing on helping the less-privileged specifically in the catchment areas of the businesses. ADF, which began largely as grants-based, has over time evolved to operate and implement programmes and has intervened in healthcare, education, economic empowerment, and disaster relief. The foundation which was endowed with N220 billion seed money by the Founder in 2014 appointed a new Board of Trustees, entrusted with the mandate to oversee its activities and operations with a clear directive to develop a new strategy. The Aliko Dangote Foundation is being sustained under a new structure, built around quality leadership, executing Aliko Dangote’s philanthropic causes and projects, as well as providing and managing shared services around social investments for the Dangote Group as a whole. In carrying out its philanthropic activities, the Foundation’s three thematic areas of interventions, clearly defined, are centered on advisory and strategic leadership on key causes and areas for implementation; championing and implementing projects around Aliko Dangote’s philosophies and beliefs; while the other is the provision of a shared services structure that will allow the Dangote Group’s Business Units to tap into ADF’s administrative and execution resources, as well as in ensuring that appropriate guidelines are implemented on a partnership basis. Born on April 10, 1957 in Kano State, right from childhood, he had his eye on business. We could say, he probably discovered his destiny early enough and keyed into it. In one of his words, “I can remember when I was in primary school, I would go and buy cartons of sweets (sugar boxes) and I would start selling them just to make money. I was so interested in business, even at that time.” Dangote Adds Value To Nigeria’s Economic Growth, Sponsors Fairs Dangote, right from when he was young, had his eyes on business. He had always, as all real entrepreneurs do, seen opportunities where others see high risk and failure. In an atmosphere of difficulty, when others would have given up, he took the risk. He is known for taking great risks in a highly risky environment. He has grown to have a Midas touch in every business he ventured into. He started as a commodity trader, he made success of it, he entered into sugar refining, and he made success of it. He set up cement manufacturing; he has made a huge success of it. Now he is venturing into petroleum product refining. His hard work has set him apart to the envy of his detractors who only see him as a beneficiary of government waiver and concession. He has invested in various sectors of the Nigerian economy and across the African continent thus creating millions of direct and indirect jobs in the continent of Africa. He has become a business colossus that bestrides the global business environment, making him the richest African today. The Dangote Group is a Nigerian multinational industrial conglomerate, founded by Aliko Dangote. It is the largest conglomerate in West Africa and one of the largest on the African continent. The company was founded in 1981 as a trading enterprise, importing sugar, cement, rice, fisheries and other consumer goods for distribution in the Nigeria market. The group moved into manufacturing in the 1990s, now owns and operates over 18 subsidiaries, Dangote Cement, the largest cement production company in Africa, with the highest market capitalisation on the Nigeria Exchange (NGX), Dangote Sugar is another major subsidiary of Dangote, NASCON Allied Industries, Dangote Refinery, among others.