The federal government, through the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, has launched a new technology-based application named: “Project Lighthouse” to track government debtors as part of efforts to generate revenues through non-oil sources. The new application would be used by the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget & National Planning to track the credit profile of the government, ascertain details of outstanding amount due and amount recovered from debtors. It also gives Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) access to update debt records progressively. Launching the Project Lighthouse Debt Analytics & Reporting Platform yesterday in Abuja, the minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed acknowledged that despite operating in a technology and data-centric world, her ministry failed to imbibe the culture of using data and information to guide the formulation, implementation and impact assessment of its initiatives and policies or even in carrying out its mandate as a Ministry. She said that modus operadis presents a number of challenges. “First, our policies are not usually empirically based. Second, we are not able to effectively track the implementation and impact of these policies, initiatives, programmes and mandate. Third, we lack data to help guide the revision or optimisation of these policies.” However, to consolidate on the current effort of the project, the minister said the debt recovery application was built to be monitored by the new debt recovery unit in her ministry. The debt recovery unit in created with a mandate to capitalise on the effort made by the project consultants to provide the government with up-to-date records into its credit status by harmonising debt records across all MDAs within the country, give debtors access to a platform to view and offset debt in a seamless and secured manner as well as strengthen the institutional framework for enforcement and management of the Federal Debt Recovery plan. Uncovers N5.2 trillion debt hidden by 10 MDAs The finance minister also disclosed that her ministry through the consolidation efforts of the project, has been able to aggregate monumental debts of approximately N5.2 trillion. “These debts came to the spotlight from data aggregated from over 5,000+ debtors across ten (10) Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)” she stated at the event that was held yesterday. The ministry had on September 26, 2019, issued a circular to all government agencies in a bid to aggregate all government debts across all MDAs, with a view to having a single window on the credit profile of Government. Recovers N53.5 billion from debtors in one year Mrs Ahmed also disclosed that working in collaboration with the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF), government has been able to recover the sum of N53.5 billion within the last 12-18 month, through the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) as a recovery touch point. To drive home the project, the minister said a fully functional website has been developed to effectively manage public perception around the Government debt recovery efforts and revenue improvement strategies Beyond other functions, the application will to be used by debtors to offset debt in a seamless and secured manner, while also to allow owners/representatives of registered companies with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), sign up on the system and ascertain the status of their liabilities to the government. Ahmed urged federal government owned enterprises and all and MDAs to update their list of debtors on a month-on-month basis against the Project Lighthouse debt recovery portfolio. “It is worth noting that the usefulness of this platform for our revenue generation effort will be dependent on your cooperation and commitment in providing quality and relevant debt-related information to populate the platform,” she said.