A one-time Senator representing Cross River Central senatorial district in the National Assembly, Senator John Owan-Enoh, has warned the leadership of ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State not to risk the governorship ticket to a non-competitive candidate on the guise of zoning the governorship seat to Southern part of the State. Owan-Enoh gave the warning during the declaration of his governorship ambition, which took place at Ishibori Playground, Ogoja LGA of Cross River State. “APC must provide the party with a candidate with a competitive stature. A candidate who should be able to work head to head, beat other contestants from rival political parties to emerge as governor of the state. “The party must not make mistake at that. The party must not seek to donate the leadership of our great party to South, instead what they should be talking of now is better strategy and formula on how to win election. “The state now has a very stiff opposition which it has never experienced before. The PDP is so desperate to win election to claim the position of governor. The determination of the PDP to take over power in our state is too strong. “We have to first of all win, if we are to make Cross River State a full-fledged APC state, we have to work together as one to make governor Ben Ayade finish strong. “What we have on ground for now is not enough. What we need now is the character and quality of candidate for us to win the governorship election in Cross River State. “Any attempt to present a candidate who is not competitive enough, we will all fail,” the former lawmaker warned. Owam-Enoh stressed that as a party, he believes the APC would not want to present a candidate who is not strong enough to beat other rival contestants from other political parties in the final election “Would you love to present a candidate who is not strong enough for the contest, to allow your party to fail? The answer is no!” While boasting that he is the real man for the plumb job, the former lawmaker said, “I am the man who can do the job.” While unveiling his manifesto, Senator Owan-Enoh stated that the policy thrust of his administration once he comes on board, will be job creation, attract private sector investment in the area of agriculture, solid minerals, and tourism and all sectors that represent the state competitive advantage. “We shall encourage existing companies in the state to create more jobs through tax incentive which will enable them to expand thier businesses in the state. “Under my leadership, the state government will introduce artisans programme, hospitality training scheme, technical training and farm support scheme to improve the earning potentials of the people. “I will give the people of Cross River State a competitive edge in the labour market,” Owan-Enoh stated.