Economists have said the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd.’s huge deductions from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) is exposing the nation’s economy to unprecedented fiscal deficit. In January this year, the NNPC hinted of plans to deduct over N1 trillion in the next six months from FAAC following the decision of the federal government to continue subsidising Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol. Data from the company on its subsidy deductions in 2021 indicated that the amount deducted monthly from FAAC was higher during the periods of higher crude oil prices. This was also confirmed by stakeholders who explained that the higher the international price of crude oil, the higher the amount to be deducted by the NNPC from FAAC. They also stated that the volume of petrol consumed in a particular month was contributory to the amount spent as subsidy, but insisted that the major factor was the global crude oil price. As the sole importer of petrol and supplier of last resort, the NNPC Ltd. ensures adequate supply of refined petroleum products by importing the commodities. The product is not deregulated and is sold between N162 and N165/litre at filling stations, far lower than the actual cost of the commodity. Last year, NNPC group managing director, Mele Kyari, had stated that petrol price should be more than N280/litre, but the commodity had been subsidised and sold at N162/litre since last year. The subsidy spent on each litre of petrol consumed in Nigeria is therefore recovered by NNPC through its monthly deductions from its remittances to FAAC. An analysis of the monthly FAAC deductions in 2021, captured by the NNPC as under-recovery of PMS/value shortfall, for instance, showed that the oil company deducted N25.37 billion from FAAC in February 2021 when the average price of Brent crude was $62.28/barrel. But in June of the same year when the price of Brent climbed to $73.16, it claimed that it spent N164.33bn on subsidy that month. Between June and November 2021, a period of six months, the NNPC deducted N888.13bn from FAAC as subsidy on petrol imports, translating to about N148 billion monthly on the average. The average cost of Brent crude during the six-month period, according to figures obtained from Statistica, a global statistical firm, was $76.4/barrel. However, the price of Brent has been on the rise since this year following efforts by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its partners to boost the price of the commodity, and this was escalated by invasion of Ukraine by Russia. Group MD/CEO of Cowry Asset Management Limited, Johnson Chukwu, opined that these developments also have macroeconomic implications resulting in increased fiscal deficit, inflationary pressures and depreciating exchange rate. Chukwu said, “The rise in the deductions from FAAC by NNPC is as a result of increase in subsidy payments occasioned by rise in crude oil prices. Given that Nigeria imports virtually 100 per cent of her refined petroleum products and the pump price of premium motor spirit is fixed by the government, any increase in international price is absorbed by the national treasury, which NNPC is.” Chukwu, told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the implication of the increasing deductions by NNPC from FAAC is that some sub-national governments that depend on FAAC distribution will find it difficult to meet their financial obligations. He warned of the financial pressure on the three tiers of the government as deductions from the oil revenue, the major source of inflow to the Federation Account, rise sharply. Current figures show that the NNPC deductions increased by 40.45 per cent quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) in the first quarter of 2022 to N883.45 billion from N629.07 billion in the preceding quarter, Q4’21. The deduction effected in March stood at N266.52 billion while other deductions in the past months were February 2022 (N228.52 billion), January 2022 (388.52 billion), December 2021 (N194.11 billion), November 2021 (N284.01 billion), and October 2021 (N150.95 billion). The deductions, according to the NNPC report to FAAC, were to offset for the payment of petrol subsidy, pipeline repairs and joint venture cost recovery. It is reported that the Company is also set to deduct another N328 billion for outstanding subsidy payment from revenue due for sharing in the month of April, 2022. February 2022 petrol subsidy was reported as N253 billion by the Company. The NNPC’s presentation to the FAAC meeting for March 2022 disclosed that the deducted N266.52 billion consists of N219.78 billion subsidy payment (termed value shortfall), N46.37 billion as Joint Venture Cost recovery and N368.03 million for pipeline repairs and maintenance. Additionally, N368.03 billion was deducted as strategic holding cost by the corporation. The NNPC export crude receipt for the month of February was $2.73 million, domestic gas receipt N13.10 billion and other receipts $15.42 million. Domestic crude oil and gas sales receipt was N266.52 billion. The CEO, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise, CPPE, an economic think tank. Dr. Muda Yusuf, while discussing the situation with LEADERSHIP Sunday, said, “The dysfunctional policies governing our oil and gas sector are some of the major headwinds to the growth and development of the Nigerian economy. “The policies have discouraged investments in the sector, perpetuated corruption, entrenched inefficiencies and compounded the fiscal challenges of the government. “Added to the policy problems is the insecurity, vandalisation of oil installations and massive theft of crude oil.  It is a combination of policy and governance failures. Rather than take advantage of high oil prices to build fiscal buffers, improve our foreign reserves and strengthen our currency, we are experiencing the exact opposite.  It is one of the biggest economic tragedies of our time. The economy is experiencing serious bleeding from the fuel subsidy regime, the equalization fund and the theft of crude oil.” He listed some of the implications as heightened fiscal deficit,  escalating inflationary pressures and depreciating exchange rate, with profound impact citizens welfare and business sustainability. “Of course, the NNPC will spend more on subsidy this year because crude oil price has been increasing and the higher the price of crude oil, the higher the amount to be spent on subsidy,” Yusuf said. “In fact, about N2.5tn might be spent on subsidy this year, meaning that about half of that amount could be spent in six months and this means hard times for states because the funds will be deducted from FAAC as usual.” Yusuf described the reversal of subsidy removal by the government as a policy somersault that was not good for the oil sector and would further aggravate the political and policy risk of investing in Nigeria. Other drawbacks of the suspension of the plan to remove fuel subsidy, he stated, include that petroleum products smugglers, beneficiaries of the fiscal leakages in the fuel subsidy ecosystem and their collaborators, will continue to smile to the banks for the next one and half years. “Some states would struggle to pay salaries, especially states that are heavily dependent on federal allocation.  Some may have to lay off some of their work force. Many will struggle to meet their financial obligations as sub-nationals. “Macroeconomic risks would become elevated as fiscal deficit and borrowing significantly surpasses projections in the 2022 budget. The CBN may have to continue to cover financing gaps through ways and means.  This of course has serious inflationary implications.  The macroeconomic outcomes would adversely impact on the exchange rate, leading to further depreciation of the currency,” he said Meanwhile, the chairman of Nigerian Governors Forum and the governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, had expressed state governors’ frustration at not benefiting anything from the rise in the price of crude oil in the international market. Fayemi, who queried the NNPC profitability status, said it was time to rethink how the industry is managed to make it more transparent and accountable to Nigerians. He stated: “We just had FAAC meeting a couple of days ago, and the NNPC contributed zero to the federation account this month and this is not the first month that the NNPC is contributing zero. Over the last couple of months, we’ve been having these challenges. Of course, we know why. “Even though oil prices in the international market are going up, maybe $110 today or more, the more it goes up it would appear that the more we suffer locally now. ‘‘So there’s an ambiguous relationship of sorts between what is happening in the international market and what we’re experiencing here in Nigeria, and as critical stakeholders in the Nigerian federation, states are naturally concerned about this; they are concerned about how to grow this industry and ensure that this industry is sustained over the long term in a manner that it can benefit those who are stakeholders in the industry.” Similarly, the governor of Ondo state, Rotimi Akeredolu, said failure to receive any revenue from the oil and gas sector in the month, despite the high price of crude oil and gas at the international market, meant that the country was bankrupt. The governors said petrol subsidy be removed if the country is to benefit from the rising oil price. 