To enhanced safe practices around Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) among students in North-East schools, Jose Foundation UK, an independent child-centred not-for-profit organisation has commenced sensitisation campaign targeting secondary schools in Borno and Yobe States. Jose Foundation UK in a statement on Wednesday signed by its president, Dr Martins Abhulimhen, said the foundation was committed to eradicating extreme poverty, advancing children’s rights, and ensuring girl child equality across the globe. The statement noted that the foundation is currently implementing a global sensitisation aimed at creating awareness and ensuring safe
practices around Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in a bid to address the global pandemic arising from COVID-19. In Borno State, the organisation held the sensitisation programme at Muhammadu Buhari Academy, a mega boarding school in Maiduguri
Metropolitan Council (MMC) where students were sensitised on the symptoms of COVID-19 and the prevention measures to observe within and outside their learning environment. The statement reads: “The first phase of the global sensitisation campaign targets public schools to ensure children are aware of, and
equipped with the basic knowledge to protect themselves from the coronavirus and also carry-out the basic WASH practices to stay safe. “The organisation observed that during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, government enforced closure of schools in an attempt to reduce the spread of the disease. “Schools in fragile contexts remain at particular risk of not re-opening, or re-opening with inadequate sanitation facilities and psychosocial support for students. Studies have also shown that girls are less likely to return to school after a period of absence, especially girls in conflict affected regions. “Even though the wave of the pandemic has reduced, and government have relaxed the restrictions, an assessment conducted by Jose Foundation
UK programme team in the Northeast shows poor or non-adherence to basic COVID-19 prevention measures especially within public schools. “It is on this premise that the Foundation has not relented in its efforts to ensure that children, especially girls in Northeast Nigeria are supported with the necessary COVID-19 awareness and prevention and basic Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) sensitization to ensure that they stay safe and protected within their learning environment.” The foundation further stated that the sensitisation campaign seeks to address the poor prevention practices observed across some Government
schools in conflict affected North-eastern States of Borno and Yobe as regards to COVID-19 prevention and general Water, Sanitation and Hygiene practices. Recall that the organisation had earlier conducted the COVID-19 sensitisation in Government Girls Secondary School, Damaturu, Yobe
State. The students were sensitised on the symptoms of COVID-19 and the prevention measures to observe within and outside their learning
environment. The facilitator also trained the school girls on handwashing and safe use of latrines in their schools to prevent transmission of infections. Jose Foundation UK team led by Ms Joy Otuonye donated facemasks, washing soaps, disinfectants and other PPEs to the school girls as
well as to the school management. The foundation hoped that through this sensitisation and distribution of these items to students and the school, the students and their
teachers will be able to improve on their personal protection and hygiene. In appreciation of the support to the school, headmistress, Muhammadu Buhari Academy, Maiduguri, Hajia Amina Mustapha Haruna, appreciated
the leadership of Jose Foundation UK for selecting the school for the campaign. She noted that the sensitisation was lifesaving and critical for the safety of the children and also noted that the items will also be used
to strengthen the WASH practices in the school. Jose Foundation UK said it will continue to prioritise the campaign as well as support school systems especially in conflict affected
Northeast with WASH facilities to further improve access to safe and hygienic facilities.