TomTom, a candy brand from Cadbury Nigeria Plc, has officially kicked off the “Breathe For It” Summits in a virtual gathering to champion and encourage youth creativity and drive. During a panel session moderated by the editor, Strategic Partnerships and Lead, Pulse Podcast Network at Pulse Nigeria,  Motolani Alake, key industry players shared insights for success within the entertainment sector, at the event. The event was aired for music and entertainment lovers and stakeholders to watch from the comfort of their homes. Cadbury’s category Lead (Gum and Candy) in West Africa, Morolake Emokpaire, gave more insight into the company’s decision to champion this engagement. She said: “the reception we got from the audience on the summit, further emphasizes the reason we launched the “Breathe for it” campaign, which is to inspire, focus and build clarity in the pursuit of what Nigerian youth love. “You will agree with me that conversations about the music industry have to be made because it has become one of our largest exports as Nigerians and Africans. “As we aim to engage more Nigerian youth to breathe deeply no matter the challenges they face, we have lined up activities like MTV Base Cypher that is ongoing, ‘Breathe for it’ Verses Challenge 2.0, which is about to start, and so much more for them to show their talents in what interests them the most.” During the summit, the panelists urged Nigerians to always remember the history of Afrobeat as it evolves into a global sensation. According to one of the panelist, Osagie Alonge, the evolution of Afrobeat is a combination of the creatives, creative managers, brands, and technology. “It’s a combination of a few things. However, we also have to look at the people who have driven the culture and not just the music, like the managers, brands and others in the creative space that have collaborated with these artists,” he stressed. Another discussant, Excel Joab further explained the role of technology in the Nigerian music industry and its evolution in the last seven years, noting that, people have started to see the value of music, which is why they subscribe to streaming platforms. While Reminisce Alaga viewed artists and producers as the drivers of the industry, Focus Ramon encouraged the wider Nigerian community to stop devaluing the hard work producers and sound engineers put into creating songs. Foza Fawehinmi highlighted the need for players in the industry to be intentional and hardworking to attract more investors who can contribute to building an efficient structure that enhances the efforts of current active stakeholders. The event, which saw Reminisce perform his trending song, “Hustle”, also ushered in a new era for Mani Lapussh, as the summit marked the premiere for his and Rema’s new song collaboration. This is one of the many benefits of his signing a contract as Tom Tom Boy. Members of the audience who tuned in to the event were treated to an exclusive listening session ahead of the proposed official release of the song across all music streaming platforms. The “Breathe for It” campaign was introduced in 2021 to help the younger generation build capacity in a key passion area – music. The campaign, through which Cadbury has signed two artistes – Rema and Mani Lapussh – as Brand Ambassador and Tom Tom Boy, respectively, promises to deliver more.