Liverpool’s quest for a quadruple continues as they thoroughly outclassed Manchester United at Anfield on Tuesday night 4-0 and move to the top of the English Premier League log ahead of Manchester City. The win puts Jurgen Klopp’s side on 76 points from 32 games, two ahead of Pep Guardiola’s Man City, who play their game in hand against Brighton & Hove Albion on Wednesday. The hosts wasted no time taking the lead, as Luis Diaz finished off a quick-hitting counter-attack right in front of David De Gea’s goal from an exquisite Mohamed Salah cross before five minutes. The Anfield crowd was on their feet in the seventh minute as well, showing their support for United’s Cristiano Ronaldo, who was left out of the squad following the death of his newborn son on Monday.
Liverpool gave the home crowd more reasons to cheer in the 22nd minute, this time with Salah the scorer from Sadio Mane’s no-look pass into the area after a well-orchestrated team move. Egypt international Salah snapped an eight-game scoreless streak for club and country with the goal, while Man United failed to register a single shot in the first half as Liverpool took a 2-0 lead into the break. Manchester United were better after half-time, but Liverpool came to life after a sleepy restart out of the dressing room with Diaz setting up Mane for a clinical first-time finish to put the hosts three goals to the good. Salah added further gloss to the scoreline, United were without Cristiano Ronaldo as expected, after the tragic death of his baby son. Both sets of fans joined together in applause as a show of support to him and his family in the seventh minute at Anfield. By that point, Liverpool had already taken the lead. Sadio Mane had time to set Mohamed Salah away and the Egyptian had the freedom of the right wing to look up and square it for Luis Diaz, who had the simplest of finishes from close range. Paul Pogba was then forced off with injury inside ten minutes as the visitors made the worst possible start to what was an astonishingly one-sided 45 minutes. United were frantic, Liverpool imperious, and midway through the opening half their lead was doubled. Thiago ran the show, helped by a United team offering him more space than he could possibly have wished for. Diaz had the ball in the net again, though this time the linesman’s flag denied him. The half-time whistle was a welcome one for the away side.