Suspected bandits yesterday morning stormed four villages in Kanam local government area of Plateau State and killed yet-to-be ascertained number of people. It was gathered that houses were burnt during the invasion of the communities. Investigation by LEADERSHIP revealed that the worst-hit among the affected communities were Kukawa, which shares a boundary with Bauchi State. Others were Gyanbahu, Dungur and Keram. The chairman of Kanam LGC, Hon Dayabu Garga, confirmed that there was a security breach in the area adding that he was on his way to Kanam. He said he had called security agencies who engaged the criminal elements and there was reinforcement from Jos to ensure the situation was controlled. In the same vein, the member representing Pankshin, Kanam and Kanke (PKK) federal constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon Yusuf Adamu Gagdi, condemned the terrorist attacks on several communities in Kanam local government area that left gory tales of killings and destruction of valuables. The lawmaker in a statement made available to newsmen in Jos said he was in Madina for lesser Hajj along with some of his colleagues when the news of the attack broke. He commiserated with the families of those who lost their loved ones and prayed to God almighty to forgive the shortcomings of the victims and grant them everlasting rest. The lawmaker, who chairs Armed Forces Committee of the Lower House, said that he contacted the minister of defence, Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd), to request for immediate military presence in the affected communities and those bordering them in order to arrest the surging activities of bandits in communities within his constituency. Gagdi fumed at the federal government’s failure to provide security to Plateau communities, despite intelligence reports by the DSS, of the influx of bandits fleeing to Plateau and other neighbouring states for over nine months before this attack was carried out. According to him, the federal government, who has exclusive control of security apparatus in the country has woefully failed in its primary responsibility of protecting lives and property of Nigerians. Gagdi expressed outrage at the devastating state of security in the country, positing that somebody has been negligent in the discharge of his duties to Nigerians, maintaining that it was high time the federal government owned up to its inability to discharge this sacrosanct duty it owes Nigerians. He said he was going to cut short the lesser Hajj and return to the country in order to visit the affected communities to console victims of the attacks, provide relief materials, as well as to see for himself the extent of damages inflicted on the communities by the daredevil marauders. The federal lawmaker commended Governor Simon Lalong for his swift response to the dastardly situation. He said even though the governor has no direct control over the security operatives within the state, his swift intervention to reach out for security interventions in times of infractions has always been commendable. Gagdi warned citizens within boundary communities, particularly in Wase and Kanam local government areas to be on the alert, as fleeing bandits from Zamfara and other North West states are camping within the thick bushes in the local government areas.