 The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has said that as workers prepare to resume work after the Easter holidays, some government offices, hotels, and other public business centres may be under lock and keys due to debts owed to the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB). Director of AEPB, Engr. Osilama Briamah, made this known while speaking to journalists on the Task Team set up by the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr. Olusade Adesola, to recover over N10billion owed the AEPB by several government agencies, business organisations, and residential apartments in the FCT. He said the Task Team which is to be headed by him, has been mandated to apply all legal means to recover the huge sums of money from the debtors, adding that the debts accrued over time due to the failure of those concerned to pay for services rendered to them by the AEPB. “All of us desire to live and work in a world-class city compared to other beautiful cities around the world. But we can only do that successfully if we behave as responsible citizens by paying our utility bills, especially for solid and liquid waste collection. “Unfortunately, many agencies, residential apartments, hotels, plazas, and so on, are not paying their bills as expected. That makes it difficult to raise the money needed to manage a mega-city like Abuja. “Beginning from 5:30am on Tuesday, April 19, based on a court order already obtained by the AEPB, the Task Team will embark on mass seal-up of these facilities to recover the huge money being owed,” he said. He lamented that the AEPB had made moves to provide soft-landing for the debtors through negotiated settlement but to no avail, adding that the only option left was to apply legal means by enforcing the court order to seal up the affected premises. The Director, however, said the affected debtors can avoid the impending embarrassment by ensuring prompt payment of their liabilities. Briamah added that the payments can be made conveniently through the Remita portal.