For politicians, in all climes, throwing jabs at one another is considered fair and part of the business of politicking. It becomes even more prevalent in the heightened frenzy of scouting for votes from and acceptance by an electorate that is not so sophisticated as is the case in Nigeria where poverty and the absence of appropriate voter education are commonplace. As 2023 looms in the horizon, the political class, as to be expected, is upbeat, albeit in the wrong direction. Time was when party manifesto was the basis for relating with the electorate. At least that was the case in the first and even the second republics when parties were elected mainly because of the content of the manifestos and the promises they contain. Unfortunately, in our view, those days seem to have gone with the wind as money and deliberate manipulation of the electoral process become more appealing access to political office than what the parties and their candidates hope to do with the political power they crave for. Frighteningly dangerous as this development is, it is fast becoming the new normal that poses a threat to the democratic process the nation fought hard for and is nurturing. The electorate, in the ensuing quagmire, is confused not knowing what or who to believe as past promises are fulfilled in the breach. However, as politicians make promises they break with reckless abandon, it is the duty of the voter to refresh their memories at the polling stations. But, in our considered opinion, the effort of the electorate to remain focused, keep their eyes on the ball, is obfuscated the more by the emerging rascality of the supporters of the main politically – exposed persons whom the key aspirants have decided to unleash on the people while encouraging them, if not, outrightly, funding such indecency that is so pervasive. We recall that Boris Johnson rode on the booster rocket of Brexit to the Prime Minister’s office. There are similarities elsewhere that should influence positively what is happening in the country as the election approaches. Instead, on a regular basis, the people are fed with mudslinging, character assassinations, hurtful innuendos and calculated falsehood that are intended to mislead the people and the choices they have to make in the selection of prospective public office holders. While this is going on unabated, we point out with utmost regret, that the real issues are pushed into the back-burners of public discourse. In the inordinate scramble for space in the political arena, the welfare of the people that gives politics and governance their relevance is forgotten. Presently, in the country, it is pertinent to say that the real issues that matter to the people seem not to be on the table as emphasis is placed on who gets what political position in the emerging dispensation. We recall that, in the midst of the brokenness, as noted by keen observers of the system, some governors accepted publicly that there is, indeed, a failure in the governance structure and even tendered a mea culpa that is proving not to be sincere. On a daily basis, the nation is inundated with killings that, in more organised societies, are enough to haunt the conscience of the leaders under whose watch they take place. More, kidnapping for ransom and abductions, have become a blood-chilling business that no longer attracts attention even from the authorities as relations of the victims are left alone to handle the crisis the best way they know how to.  In some cases, the security agencies are alleged to have advised the victims’ relations to cooperate with the criminals. The National Bureau of Statistics, overwhelmed by the enormity of the problem, has lost trend of the unemployment situation in the country to the point of politicising their calculations so as not to offend the powers that be. The rate of inflation, too, has become, unarguably, a guesswork. The nation’s social infrastructure such as education and health are all but lying prostrate, comatose and in urgent need of reviving. The energy crisis, fuel scarcity and electricity black out that held the nation captive for over a month have not quite abated not even after the government’s explanation of imported toxic fuel and the collapse of the national grid. Simply put, the nation is in a dire strait that should demand the attention of the politicians. It is from this perspective that we are persuaded to argue that it is time the political class returned to the path of rectitude, purge themselves of crass insensitivity and inattentiveness. This newspaper demands that the aspirants rein in their supporters and direct them to return to the good old soapbox with the real issues that relate to statecraft. Nigerians desire to hear from the aspirants their plans to address, in a meaningful way, the insecurity in the land. They demand answers to the economic challenges that beset the people – inflation, unemployment and high cost of living generally. Parents need an explanation as to why their children in public universities are at home though not on holiday. The people want to know the plans the aspirants have to rehabilitate the health sector. We are familiar with the situation where promises made before elections are hardly kept after victory is achieved. At least, let us hear them so that the people can have a basis to hold the leaders that emerge to account. By all means, enough of the campaign of calumny, mudslinging, character assassination, petty horse-trading, irrelevant and meaningless politicking.  