A coalition of Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria have scored 14 out of the 469 serving lawmakers in the National Assembly High, and seek for their reelection in order to avoid brain drain. Speaking under the auspices of Coalition of Media and Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria, said the 14 lawmakers have done exceptionally well in their legislative work, urging their political parties to give them the benefit of first refusal. The National Co-ordinator of the group, Mr Alex Enemanna, said even though other Senators and House of Representatives members perform well, but added that they are advocating that various political parties should give the re-election tickets to the 14 lawmakers. The 14 lawmakers are: Senators Ali Ndume (APC Borno South); Orji Uzor Kalu (APC Abia North); Smart Adeyemi (APC Kogi West ); James Manager (PDP Delta South); Enyinnaya Abaribe (PDP Abia South); Abiodun Olujimi (PDP Ekiti South); Sani Musa (APC Niger East) and Olamilekan Adeola ( APC Lagos West). Others are: the Deputy Speaker, Hon Idris Wase (APC Plateau State);  IHon Ndudi Elumelu (PDP Delta State ); Hon Ado Doguwa (APC Kano State); Hon Muktar Betara (APC Borno State); Hon Nkiru Onyejeocha (APC Abia State) and Hon Sergius Ogun (PDP Edo State). The CSOs explained that the advocacy is being done to avoid legislative brain drain since the 14 lawmakers performed creditably well as far as legislative activism and development – driven legislations are concerned . “After a careful appraisal of the Ninth National Assembly, the coalition and its key partners have come to a conclusion, after careful perusal and fact finding, and in view of sustaining the culture of experience in legislation, that some legislators are deserving of commendation for being on the side of the people in the course of their national assignment both in the quality of motions and Bills they have sponsored, responsible oversight of their committees as well as initiating projects to make life worth living in their various constituencies.” “This is a cardinal decision of the coalition in order to avoid legislative brain drain for the overall benefits of the nation by sustaining experience, quality and capacity in the nation’s national assembly.” “This appraisal cuts across the political divides, ranking and non-ranking members and of course both chambers of the National Assembly.” “We  shall after this press conference write to leadership of their various political parties at the ward, local government, state and national levels to accord these legislators the right of first refusal in the build up to the 2023 general elections.” “This  is to ensure that we have our very bests and unbiased minds at our legislative Houses which is pivotal to a thriving democratic norm,” he said. When asked to explain how the 14 lawmakers were adjudged to be the best out of   469 federal lawmakers, the National Co-ordinator of the group said their findings were based on three months intensive and thorough research carried out  across the 109 Senatorial Districts and 360 federal constituencies. Unlike other elective offices, legislative offices in Nigeria have no limit to the number of times one can contest. For CSOs to spend months assessing lawmakers performance, it means the nation democracy is advancing. What now remain is for the political parties to decide whether to adhere to the CSOs suggestions or otherwise. Whatever that happens, Nigerians don’t want brain drain in the national assembly. Nigerians will want a legislative branch that is vibrant with men and women of integrity that can work for the betterment of the country.