Watermelon farming is gradually becoming a lucrative agribusiness in Nigeria as the consumption rate surges on a daily basis. It is a refreshing fruit containing alot of water.  In fact, watermelon is about 93% water and contains essential vitamins C, B, and A.  It is high in protein, magnesium and is essential in managing weight, body temperature and even blood pressure. It crop that is high in demand and consumed by all classes of people. It is recommended for its medicinal and nutritional value by health professionals. It is also a type of crop that can grow anywhere in Nigeria. You do not need a ton of money to start a watermelon farm, as a matter of fact, a little investment will give you high returns if you do it right. Knowledge If you know nothing about watermelon, how to grow it, the variety available, etc, its best you find a successful farmer and understudy him for at least a few weeks.  For example, there are different types of watermelons, namely: Sugar Baby, Crimson Sweet, Charleston Gray and Yellow Crimson Sweet. You need to know which one will give you better Return on Investment (ROI). Startup Capital The major investment you may have to make is the acquisition of land.  The size of land will depend on the amount of money available to you.  Of course, the larger the land, the more seeds you can plant and the more you will harvest. With as little as N500,000 investment, you can start a watermelon farm.  We have seen people who started with much less but that will be possible if you already have a farmland and will not be using any form of mechanisation.  The ROI is huge and can make anyone wealthy. Farmland Not all types of land are suitable for Watermelon farming.  Watermelon thrives in a loamy soil, well drained with a pH of between 6 – 6.7.   Watermelons are almost 100% water and therefore survive where there is a good source of rainwater, full sunlight and well-drained soil to grow properly.  The size of land you get is largely dependent on your capital. Planting The best time to plant watermelon is between March, June, July, and September if you are operating from the Southern part of the country.  For those farming in the North, the best time is between May and July.  The reason for this is because of the difference in soil humidity.  But with irrigation, watermelon is planted all through the year especially in the North. To get the most of your seed, space your ridges at 6 feet by 6 feet apart. Harvesting Between a period of 70 to 90 days, you can plant and harvest your watermelon.  This means you can get a 4 planting and harvesting season in one year.  The fruits are ripe when the vines start to wither or when their looks become dull. 