The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Faruk Yahaya, has warned officers and soldiers of the Nigerian to remain apolitical and professional in the discharge of their constitutional responsibilities, as the electioneering period approaches. He urged them to defend the nation’s democracy and avoid being lured into politics. Felicitating with personnel of the Nigerian Army on the occasion of the Eid-El-Fitr Celebration, Yahaya in his goodwill message to all formations and units specially recognised and appreciated their  sacrifices and commitment in  various ongoing operations nationwide. He said the best Sallah gift he expects from them was to eliminate as many bandits, kidnappers and terrorists as possible and recover as many weapons and ammunition from criminal elements. In a statement by the director, Army public relations, Brig. Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, the COAS urged officers and soldiers to leverage on the holy season of Ramadan to reflect on the significance of loyalty, obedience and sacrifice. He said the season provides a unique opportunity to re-examine and re-adjust efforts towards fulfilling their constitutional roles, in order to justify the confidence reposed in them by Nigerians. He charged field commanders to redouble their efforts in ongoing operations. Gen Yahaya also paid special tributes to officers and soldiers who paid the supreme price in the defence of fatherland. He emphasised that under his watch training and welfare of personnel and their families would continue to receive paramount attention. The COAS noted that this informed his resolve to improve on medical facilities and services, while ensuring that  treatment of personnel and their families, particularly those who are wounded in action will  continue to get support and special vocational training to help them cope with their new health status and overcome associated psychological trauma. While wishing all Nigerians a happy Eid-el-Fitr, Gen Yahaya expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari and all Nigerians for their unflinching support to the Nigerian Army in the execution of its constitutional mandate.