President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed profound sorrow and sympathy to the Katsina Emirate Council, the government and the people of Katsina State following the demise of Alhaji Abdulkarim Kabir Usman, Sarkin Sullubawa, the District Head of Kaita. According to a statement by presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, on Sunday, the deceased is the younger brother of the reigning Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumini Kabir Usman, and the older brother of Alhaji Kabiru Mohammed Hassan, the Director of Finance and Accounts, State House, Abuja, among others. The leader of the delegation and Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, conveying the President’s message said, “on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, government and the people of the country and on my own behalf, we convey our deepest sympathies to the family of the late Sarkin Sullubawa, relatives and friends, the Katsina Emirate Council as well as the government and people of Katsina State.” The President noted that besides serving as District Head for so many years, the Sarkin Sullubawa was an elder statesman and a successful farmer who contributed to the development of the country with distinction, adding with appreciation that the deceased was a champion of efforts to eradicate polio from his community. President Buhari emphasised that these were attributes of the departed statesman that business and political leaders should emulate. The Emir of Katsina, in response, thanked the President for standing with the people of the State in good and bad times. For his part, Governor Bello Masari of Katsina State, who also received the delegation, spoke about the qualities of the late District Head, saying the deceased stood fearlessly with President Buhari in his political odyssey. Masari repeated what he said about the President a week ago that he was the best leader ever, citing the President’s commitment to the well-being of the poor as an example. “We have 834,000 children and 10,000 cooks on the school feeding programme. We have 41,000 on the N-Power engagement scheme. Without the millions of Naira paid to the poor under the Conditional Cash Transfer and regular payment of salaries to our workers here, the situation we are in could have been more acute,” said the governor.