Whether they’re playing games, texting friends, or checking out the latest viral video, parents have the major task of setting limits on device use to protect their children from inappropriate content and excessive screen time. Some of the tips on parental control for smartphones (Androids and iPhones) are:  Install Google Family Link on your own phone. Add their registered e-mail to your Google family Link. Factory reset their android device if they already have one then login the device with their own g-mail account that is linked to your Google Family Link. If it is a new device, make sure it is their Gmail you use to activate the device. Immediately you carry out step 4 & 5 above, your phone will get a notification to allow them activate the device, this is the beginning of you taking control from anywhere. All adult content of any form will never load in their phone. They cannot install anything without your approval remotely from the family link. You can lock their device from anywhere. You can set a start and stop time for their device usage, the phone will lock when it gets to that time even if you forget. YouTube, will not allow them to see adult contents, also YKids which is YouTube for kids can be downloaded. From your Google Family Link, you can see how long they stayed on each app or page to warn them where necessary.  Sharing an iPhone with your 8-year-old just isn’t as convenient as it is with an Android device. You can’t toggle back and forth between accounts without logging in and out of iCloud, so things are much simpler if you each have your own device. To get started, add your child to your family group under Settings > Screen Time. If the child doesn’t have an iCloud account, the phone will walk you through the setup process. Once you’ve done that, you can use your own phone or the child’s to set various limits. In the Screen Time settings menu, select App Limits, then Add Limit. From there, you can choose All Apps & Categories or place controls on specific options: Social, Games, Entertainment, and so on. Like other settings features, these will be protected with a four-digit parental passcode designed to keep kids from modifying them. You can further restrict the kind of content your kid can access, select Content & Privacy Restrictions, toggle that on, and then tap Content Restrictions. This allows you to limit movie- and TV show-viewing on the device to specific ratings (G, PG, R, etc.) and decide whether the child can listen to podcasts and music with explicit content. Adult websites can be blocked, too. You can also restrict interactions within multiplayer games. After that, you can use the Screen Time settings on your phone to keep tabs on what your kids are doing and, if need be, remotely adjust the controls. When you select a child’s profile, you’ll see the various limits you set, along with a real-time report on how the child is spending screen time.