The United Kingdom (UK) has launched programme of up to £35 million to support negotiations and implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The AfCTFA is expected to lift 30 million people out of extreme poverty, create jobs, and provide new commercial opportunities for businesses across Africa and the UK. This comes as the secretary general of the AfCFTA Secretariat, Wamkele Mene, visited London to discuss how the UK can continue its work as a strategic partner to the trading bloc. International Trade Secretary, Anne-Marie Trevelyan said, a new UK programme to support the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) trading bloc. Through the AfCFTA Support Programme, the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) will provide up to £35m to provide trade facilitation and trade policy support to the AfCFTA Secretariat and Member States through TradeMark East Africa (TMEA), Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and other regional partners. Trevelyan said: “as an independent free trading nation, the UK strongly supports the AfCFTA, the largest free trade area in the world. “We are keen to see continued momentum on outstanding negotiations, and on practical implementation of the agreement on the ground. “This new aid programme shows that trade is a force for good, and will lead to increased trade, investment, and prosperity for both Africa and the UK.” Secretary general of the AfCFTA Secretariat Wamkele Mene stressed that, “we are pleased to receive this support from the government of the UK, as it ushers us into a partnership for strengthening cooperation related to customs and trade facilitation and trade policy across the African continent. “In the last five years or so, we have seen the re-engineering of our Regional Economic Communities, to take into consideration the aspirations that are embedded in the AfCFTA instruments. We have also witnessed during this period the enthusiasm and the energy of our private sector to rise to the occasion and begin to exploit what is provided for in the Agreement.” He stated that, “our ambition now is to see commercially meaningful trading in ‘Made in the AfCFTA’ products taking place, across the length and breadth of our continent, to create jobs and economic opportunities for Africans, especially women and the youth. We want to make trade easier for the Africans, in particular our women and young Africans who trade across our borders. “This new AfCFTA support programme is, therefore, timely to facilitate the implementation of the AfCFTA, through supporting national implementation committees and regional economic communities.” Minister for Africa, Vicky Ford said: “closer integration between African economies boosts growth across the continent creates opportunities and helps lift people out of poverty. “The UK is a committed partner in this mission. This UK funding will promote long-term partnerships between African countries and support a more prosperous, greener continent.” Under the UK’s G7 presidency last year, the new British Investment International (BII) group pledged to work with other G7 Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) to invest at least $80 billion in the African private sector by 2027. Support for projects in Africa from UK Export Finance is also at its highest in decades, backing a range of infrastructure projects in countries from Côte d’Ivoire to Uganda, with more than £2.3 billion of financial support in the past year. The AfCFTA support programme also complements the UK’s broader partnership with the African Union as a multilateral institution to promote global values.