Controversy has trailed the emergence of the speaker of Benue State House of Assembly, Hon Titus Uba, as the consensus candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming governorship election. In a statement by the Benue Rebirth Movement (BRM) the group said its attention had been drawn to a widely publicised interview in online media by Governor Samuel Ortom as well as the purported selection of Hon Uba, as the PDP consensus candidate of the party. The group which spoke through its leader, Monday Morgan, lamented that the governor’s roles in the selection are prejudicial and against the principles of equity, fairness and justice. It said this is also inimical to the credibility and integrity of any process for the selection of the consensus governorship candidate at the state level in which the governor is supposed to play a neutral and fatherly role. But in a swift reaction, the governor described the allegation as spurious and far from the truth, particularly as it relates to the 2023 governorship election in Benue State. According to him, “My attention has been drawn to a widely circulated statement by the leadership of BRM where they claimed that I hate the Idoma people and would not want them to be elected into office as governor of the state.” The governor who spoke through the chief press secretary Nathaniel Ikyur said, “Since 2015 when  I came into office, I have continued to promote the unity of the state with accentuated vigour. This is also displayed in the now famous ‘Unity Cap’ which  preaches to build unity among all ethnic nationalities in the state and Nigeria in general. “I had earlier advised the Rebirth Movement to do more homework by building trust and confidence with their Tiv brothers in their quest and not to turn and make me an issue in their contest for the governorship of the state. I am not against an Idoma man becoming the governor of the state. It is a process that involves everyone.” He said the idea behind this is to show that Benue is for all and not just for the Tiv alone as the leader of BRM, AVM Monday Morgan wants the public to believe. Ortom maintained that, “It is on record that I had counselled the leadership of the movement to reach out to their Tiv brothers to canvass support across all political parties, and not just in the PDP, for the purpose of an Idoma son or daughter to be elected as governor of the state.” The leader of the group, AVM  Morgan insisted that the governor in the said interview said he would not zone the position of state governor to Zone C for the 2023 election because if the PDP picks its governorship flag bearer from zone C and the All Progressives Congress (APC) does not do the same, PDP would lose the governorship election in the state since politics is a game of numbers. He said, “To say the lest we in BRM and Zone C were greatly shocked to read the statements credited to Governor Ortom in the interview. We view the governor’s statement as a deliberate attempt to foreclose the possibility and chances of a Zone C person becoming the state governor next year. We also consider the process of the purported selection of Rt. Hon. Uba as a ruse designed to frighten zone C into abandoning its gubernatorial aspiration.” 