The economies of the five states in the southeast region of the country are taking a beating and bleeding billions of naira in lost revenue, trade opportunities, leaving warehouses empty due to the sit at home order imposed by the Indigenous People Of Biafra IPOB, a secessionist movement. Findings by LEADERSHIP Sunday suggest that business owners are moving their businesses elsewhere. Those who remain in the the affected states are seriously considering relocating to other regions of the country to escape the order, which has been enforced through the use of violence, while the state governors, other political leaders of the southeast appear helpless and are mostly concerned about the 2023 presidential election. Prominent business owners in Enugu have warned that the sit at home order by the IPOB is gradually crippling the economy of the Southeast. They said they have lost a lot of money because of the sit at home order, adding that some of them were planning to move out of the Southeast. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday in Enugu, a prominent business man, Mr Ignatius Onyia said he was now finding it difficult to pay the rent of his five warehouses because of the sit at home order. He said from his interaction with other business owners, they might have lost over N10 billion since the sit at home order started. Also speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday, another business owner,  Chief Ugochukwu Ani, who sells fairly used clothes in large quantities said he alone has lost millions of naira since the beginning of the order. “My brother, I have lost millions of naira since this sit at home started. Those who sell the clothes to us in Aba are relocating to other states becuase of the sit at home” he stated. They appealed to southeast governors to wade into the issue and resolve the problem, adding that they were already planning to relocate to other zones. Ani poured encomiums on the governor of Anambra State, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo for his efforts, so far to stop the sit at home and urged other governors of the zone to make their own contributions. “Governor Soludo is making serious efforts to stop this sit at home. Others should emulate him as the southeast economy has lost more than N15 billion as a result of this order,” Ani stated. As the sit at home order forcefully imposed on residents of Ebonyi State by IPOB continues unabated, residents of Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital and it’s environs have lamented the negative effects of the order on businesses and the numerous losses incurred by business owners. LEADERSHIP Sunday investigation reveals that traders who hitherto visit Ebonyi State from Ugep, Itigidi, Obubra and many other communities in Cross River State to purchase goods at the international market no longer visit the state on days that the IPOB is taken to court following the sit at home order. According to Mr. Christopher Nwali who deals in plastic chairs and other plastic items, expressed regret that the sit at home has adversely affected purchases especially from his customers in Cross River and Awka Ibom states. He noted that most of his customers usually come to Abakaliki, stay over to make purchases early in the next day and go back. But since the commencement of the sit at home, many of them now prefer to go to Calabar to make their purchases. According to him: “the sit at home order has really affected business activities in not just Abakaliki but other major cities and villages in Ebonyi state. Each day I stay at home without opening my shop, I lose hundreds of thousands of naira. I am one of the major distributors of plastics materials in Ebonyi State, people come from many parts of Cross River and Awka Ibom to buy goods. But today, we lose as much as N500, 000 each sit at home day that we don’t open for business”. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Sunday, a foodstuffs dealer also at the International Market said, “This order. If I don’t come out, I won’t see money to feed my family; I am a widow, my husband died 10 years ago and it is this business that is sustaining me and my family. A day I don’t come out, it’s a lot of losses”. “You can see I have perishable goods here, and I did not finish selling today, I can sell the next day. But with this order, I have baskets of tomatoes, vegetables that got rotten. I wanted to come out but couldn’t for fear of the unknown, especially as we heard what happened in Enugu the other time. I have lost not less than N50, 000 within the last two days I did not come to the market. The state commissioner for commerce, industry and business development, Dr Stephen Odo expressed worry that the order is impacting negatively on the region. He said, “For business to grow, we really need peace, not just peace but peaceful environment that has the ability to stir confidence in the people” “And here in South-east, we are suffering a self-inflicted problem because in self inflicted problems, nobody achieves result by punching itself. For me, South-east is just inflicting itself”. “We are a region that is known by trade, commerce and it involves day to day business transactions and activities. So anything that hinders business activities is actually destroying the economy of the South-east and this is our pride”. “We are not like the west that is developed in terms of international businesses, connections and multinational operations. The average Igbo man survives by trading and the lower class survive on daily by going to their farms and so on and so forth”. “So, if we now decide to say there should be no movement, what it means to me is that the man who depends on a daily work would not be able to feed his family; definitely what it would mean is that the family would go hungry. “When you look at it from the other angle, when a shop is closed the earning for the whole day is also closed. And when all the shops in South-east are closed, we cannot quantify the number of losses in terms of naira and kobo across the entire region”. “Onitsha market is locked, Enugu market, Aba market Ariaria market is locked, Ebonyi international market is locked. You can’t quantify the kind of economic loss, that is one aspect”. On the recent position of Anambra state government regarding the order, a member of the Ebonyi State Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Mr. ifeatu Chukwu commended the Anambra state government for the move and called for concerted efforts towards ending the order. Despite the effort by the Abia State government and other stateholders in persuading the residents to ignore the order, there is yet to be an acceptable level of response. This is even as the observance of the order has continued to take its toll on the state economically and in some instances accompanied with loss of lives and property. LEADERSHIP Sunday checks indicated that while a majority of the residents would wish to ignore the order because of its negative consequences, they cannot do otherwise out of fear of the unkown. In their respective speeches, Aba-based entrepreneurs, Hon. Johnson Ekuma and Ambassador Aloy Chibuzor decried the situation, adding that it has not only been retarding their businesses but has also become a security threat. According to Comrade Oko Demaian, a tricycle operator based in Umuahia, who complained that the situation affects every sector of the economy: “On a personal note, I am totally against the order because it is an ill-wind. In his contribution, the commander general of the state Vigilance Group (Bakassi), Chief Martin Idika said the group has always been on red alert anyday the order is observed. In the words of Madam Ukachi Ngborogwu, a dealer on vegitable at Ubani Modern Market in the state capital, the situation was becoming unbearable by observance as “it has always brought the economy to its knees.” It would be recalled that some months ago leading economists and political leaders in the geopolitical zone said the losses had ran into billions of naira and appealed to the people to have a rethink about it. Responding to the Anambra State goverment directive to the people to suspend the observance , some of the residents described it as a welcome development, appealing to the other states to take a cue from that state. A business mogul, Chief Uche Onwucheka has lamented the huge loses incurred by business outfit in the South east zone as a result of the  IPOB sit at home order on Mondays. According to him ,these are unquantifiable as the business owners have recorded losses to the tune of overN 5 billion. He stressed that the economy of the zone is sliding backwards and no meaningful project takes place in the  present predicament. Chief  Onwucheka appealed to the governors of the southeast to find a way out of the situation. He commended the governor of Anambra State,  Prof. Chukwuma Soludo for his contribution in finding lasting solution to the present ugly trend and urged the governors of the  Southeast to join in these noble initiative so as to reinvigorate the economy of the zone.