National Publicity Secretary, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Bishop Emmah Isong, at the weekend, commissioned a multi-million naira shopping mall, which he intends to transform into shopping centre complex before 2022 winds down. Isong, the General Overseer of Christian Central Chapel International (CCCI), a.k.a Faith Mansion, in Calabar, Cross Rivers State, named the shopping mall after six senior members of his church, who died decades ago, saying it was the only way to immotalise the deceased, who he branded as legends. The cleric maintained that a percentage of the revenue that acrues in form of rent from the shops will be given to the families of the deceased, whom he issued certificates shortly before commissioning the shopping mall. “I have named the shopping mall which I called ‘Coat of Many Colours Multipurpose Arena’ after six senior church members, who served the church diligently in various capacities before thier demise. It’s the only way to keep the memories alive for the sake of immortality.” Isong, who is also a patron of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), South-South zone, listed the legends immotalised to include Andy Bassey, Wisdom Anthonio, Bassey .I. Uyah, Madam Frazer, Victoria Okon Snr, and Arit Nyong Bassey. In his exhortation from the Book of Proverbs 10:7 shortly before issuing out certificates of remembrance to families of the deceased, the cleric stressed that the memory of the just is blessed, but the name of the wicked shall rot. Isong, who could not mention the exact figure which he spent on to execute the project, urged pastors in the country to go after things that can encourage members of the congregation so that they don’t see clergymen as people who use and dump people. “Let’s not see pulpit as the only place to influence people. Bring a platform like this, to make smallscale businesses thrive. Lets try to remember people that served the church for more than a decade. “Let people not see us as people who use and dump them. Even in death, they should be remembered. Let try to keep those memories alive since they were the once that kept our churches alive. “Pastors should give back to the community, give back to the membership,” the cleric said. When asked to explain his source of motivation in establishing a mini-shopping complex, rather than focusing attention on the gospel, the cleric stated that the initiative would assist residents of the community buy at less prices as compared to what is obtainable in the area. “Because I live in the village with my people, I see the way they suffer. I decided to build these shops so that they can pick the goods at almost no cost,” Isong stated. Also, speaking at the occasion, the Cross River State Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Barr. Rosemary Archibong, who described business as a veritable tool towards prosperity, urged youths of the community not to relent in setting up small and medium scale enterprises, which if nurtured properly is likely to caterpault them into big-time entrepreneurs.