Palpable fear has enveloped members of former national working committee (NWC) and those of the immediate past caretaker committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), following plans by the party’s new leadership to probe activities of the party’s national secretariat and its directors. The new national chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, who disclosed this yesterday, said he would begin investigation of the secretariat and the party’s directors after the transition committee submits its report on Wednesday this week. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that the hint of a possible probe has thrown the national secretariat of the party in disarray, leaving directors and staff jittery. Former party officials were also said to be calling to know whether the new chairman meant what he said or it was a mere political statement. A party chieftain who did not want his name in print told our correspondent that the new leadership of the governing party would likely make real its plan to investigate the affairs of the party from inception, with a view to discourage the interest and desperation shown by members who sought party positions in last week’s national convention. “The idea is to return sanity to the party and discourage the rush and desperation for party position by those who think it is a lucrative business. Former officials of the party should have every reason to fear if their hands are not clean because the party has gone through a lot and it is time to undergo a rebirth, the type of renaissance that would bring internal cleansing in line with President Buhari’s zero tolerance for corruption. “Don’t forget that the circumstances that led to the ouster of the Oshiomhole-led NWC and the emergence of the caretaker committee had left the party porous and vulnerable to sleaze. There must be some level of accountability and I think this is what the new party leadership is trying to achieve,” the source said. Hinting about a possible probe yesterday after he and other members of the NWC received their certificates of return from chairman of the national convention electoral committee and Jigawa State governor, Abubakar Badaru, at the national secretariat, Adamu said the party cannot continue to do things the way they were done in the past. Noting that his administration would have zero tolerance for failure, the former Nasarawa State governor solicited the support of governors on the party’s platform under the aegis of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF). The new APC chairman said the party leadership would interface with the PGF through its chairman and the Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu. He stated: “But to work with me, not because I’m the best and everything, you have to be loyal. It is not loyalty to me but loyalty to the party. You have to recognize the authority of the party. In all that we do. And the interest of the party is paramount. “You are lucky you around because we had agreed by Wednesday we are having our next meeting because we wanted the committee to give us a report. We want to know where the party is exactly, so that we don’t get taken by the exuberance of winning election and just plunge into the pond pool or not know how deep is the temperature of the water. “As for you the director of admin, you have no hiding place. We will we will count on your loyalty to the party. It is in God’s pleasure that we are here at the helm of affairs of this party. We’ve come with a very open mind but you have to reciprocate in same spirit. “We will definitely by the will of God Almighty … the secretariat; we need to look at you but I’m not saying anything today until the transition committee submits its report. It is my hope that by the time the report is submitted, you have what they call clean bill of ledge. That’s my prayer. Right? My sister knows what I’m talking about,” Adamu declared. Adamu further noted that President Muhammadu Buhari had given the new NWC marching orders to deliver the 2023 general elections. According to him, there would be no excuses whatsoever, saying all hands must be on deck to deliver on the President’s mandate. “On the elections, we cannot move the way we are to the election. We have a marching order from the leader of this party, President Muhammadu Buhari, we will have to deliver. There will be no excuses whatsoever and will need everybody’s hands on deck for this to happen,” he stated. Earlier, chairman of the election committee, Governor Badaru implored the Adamu-led NWC to carry all those who stepped down for them at the national convention along. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for providing leadership to the party. He said, “We thank all the contestants for really behaving in a mature and understanding manner for the interest and progress of our party. They are heroes of our party. Despite their personal interests, they chose to withdraw to allow consensus to reign so that our party will come out stronger and stronger and indeed this was what happened. “I thank them and I believe they deserve all our commendation and the party will never forget them.”  Mustapha Visits Adamu, Pledges Support For New NWC Meanwhile, a national chairmanship aspirants at the just concluded national convention of the ruling APC, Mallam Saliu Mustapha, yesterday assured the new party chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, of his support. Speaking during a courtesy call on Senator Adamu at his home in Abuja, the Turaki of Ilorin pledged to cooperate with the new NWC of the party in strengthening the party structure. Mustapha, in a statement issued by his media aide, Dapo Okubanjo, said he remains a committed party man. He noted: “I am here today as a core party man to assure you, as the National Chairman of our great party, of my support and cooperation as you embark on the task of strengthening the party. My loyalty to APC has never been in doubt so I will remain loyal to the cause of the party under your leadership especially with the 2023 election at hand. “Having being in the opposition for years, I know what it entails and will therefore work for unity of the party to ensure we continue with our winning streak at the centre. Like all party members, I look forward to you having a fruitful tenure with more wins and expect you and your team to build on the success stories of previous national executives. Responding, Senator Adamu expressed delight at the visit, noting that he was prepared to work with Mustapha and all stakeholders of the party to achieve success in his tenure. He said, “It is a pleasure to have you around. I cannot run the party alone and will be open to support and assistance from key stakeholders like you for the task at hand.” Adamu also extended a hand of fellowship to all members of the party for a successful tenure in office  APC ‘Bombs’ PDP, Accuses Opposition Of Trying To Reap From Kaduna Train Attack The All Progressives Congress (APC) has fired back at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over its comments on recent attacks by terrorists, saying it is “unconscionable, insensitive and irresponsible” for the opposition to try to make profit from the attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train. The governing party was reacting to the claim by the major opposition party that the public confession by Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, and Transportation minister, Rotimi Amaechi, of the military knowing where bandits are hiding as well as some members of the Federal Executive Council frustrating the bid to install security surveillance equipment to avert terrorist attack on the Kaduna-Abuja rail track, confirms that the APC administration knows the “whereabouts and plans” of the terrorists and has been creating safety nets for them to freely operate. According to APC, while the PDP digs deep in the mud trying to find electoral gold, President Muhammadu Buhari, in a swift response to this tragic event, met with Security Chiefs and directed the immediate conclusion of all processes for implementation of the integrated Security Surveillance and Monitoring System (ISSM) solution for Abuja-Kaduna Rail Line as well as the extension of the ISSM solution to cover the Lagos – Ibadan Rail Line. In a statement issued yesterday by its national publicity secretary, Barr Felix Morka, the APC regretted that while the country had been in deep mourning over recent attacks by terrorists and other avowed enemies of the country, the PDP “has sought to profit from our collective grief and tragedy in its desperate quest to seize power and plunge” the country “back into ruinous looting ways.” Describing PDP’s comment as one of its many irrational outbursts, APC said, “It is outright unconscionable, insensitive and irresponsible for the PDP to seek to politicize a terrorist attack that cut short the lives of our dear ones for its own base interest. Granted that Nigerians have become accustomed to PDP’s arrant flippancy, the occasion of a national tragedy is not exactly a good time for puerile rascality.” The APC further noted the PDP was busy digging deep in search of electoral despite President Muhammadu Buhari’s decisive response to the attacks by terrorists, including meeting with security chiefs and giving marching orders to security operatives to hunt down the terrorists. Morka restated the governing party’s commitment to work with relevant authorities to track down and bring the terrorists to book. He stated: “While the PDP digs deep in the mud trying to find electoral gold, President Muhammadu Buhari, in a swift response to this tragic event, met with Security Chiefs and directed the immediate conclusion of all processes for implementation of the integrated Security Surveillance and Monitoring System (ISSM) solution for Abuja-Kaduna Rail Line as well as the extension of the ISSM solution to cover the Lagos – Ibadan Rail Line. “The President further directed the rescue of all kidnapped passengers, and ordered a manhunt for the perpetrators of these acts of terror. The management of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) was also directed to speedily repair the damaged lines and restore services without delay. “Several senior administration officials visited and condoled with bereaved families and extended support and care to those injured in the attack while the PDP continues to engage in idle mudslinging. “APC mourns our dearly departed and our thoughts and prayers are with families and friends of our dearly departed and the injured and the unaccounted for. Our party remains committed to working with relevant authorities to bring perpetrators of these despicable acts to justice.”  Taraba APC Chieftains Vow To Unseat PDP In 2023 Meanwhile, chieftains of the APC in Taraba State have vowed to reclaim power from the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, saying the PDP administration should start preparing for its exit ahead of the 2023 polls. The Taraba APC chieftains led by Emmanuel Bwacha, immediate past deputy Senate minority leader; Senator representing the Taraba Central senatorial district, Yusuf Abubakar-Yusuf, and a commissioner in the Federal Revenue Allocation, Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission, Ahmed Yusuf, spoke yesterday when they paid a courtesy call on the new national chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, ath the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. Addressing journalists after a closed door meeting with the APC chairman, Bwacha said the party leaders in the state are united to ensure that the next government in Taraba state is APC. The lawmaker appealed to the party leaders to join them in working to achieve the objective, saying it was the crux of their meeting with the national chairman. Acknowledging Adamu’s capacity and ability to carry everyone along, he said, “We are privileged to be the first state to pay a solidarity visit to the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress. This visit is propelled by the fact that we are a family and we need to show the way that indeed we are one united by common purpose. “Taraba State is a PDP government for now but when people are dissatisfied with one thing they are naturally bound to change.” On his part, Senator Yusuf said the APC stands the chance of winning the 2023 election in Taraba State, saying “Taraba is APC and APC is Taraba. “Today, our chances are even greater with all the commonality of the people. The first step for us is to ensure that we capture power in Taraba State. So, we have the greatest chance with the unity that we have,” he added.