Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka has faulted the resolve of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to anoint and elect, Iyiola Omisore who is the prime suspect in the murder of late Attorney General, Bola Ige, as its National Secretary. Omisore was last Saturday elected National Secretary of the ruling APC during its National Convention held at the Eagles Square, Abuja, Nigeria. Soyinka’s reaction was contained in a statement issued on Saturday, titled: “Perhaps closed files should remain just that-Closed?” He said barely three months had passed since the 20th anniversary of the murder of the late Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Bola Ige, an occasion that he utilized to remind President Muhammadu Buhari, of a subsisting election pledge. ‘’That pledge was to re-open the files on the spate of unsolved political assassinations that had plagued the nation in recent decades. Prominent among those cases was that of the Minister of Justice, murdered on his way to take up a prestigious position with the United Nations. “Presidential response was swift. Buhari ordered the Inspector-General of Police to re-open those files and resume investigations. The nation has patiently awaited even a hint of work in progress. Most, I am certain, expect no less than a revaluation of prior investigative efforts. None, to my knowledge, has attempted to rush the Chief of Police and his team into judgment.  We all take solace in the knowledge that the wheels of justice grind slowly, but they arrive.  Eventually,” he said. Soyinka asked: “With the emergence of the said prime suspect as National Secretary of the Ruling Party, is the Inspector-General of Police equipped to confront political obstacles in a resumption of investigation?  Is there any guarantee that the result will see the light of day? How suspect, ab initio, will be the conclusions, given the present political ordering? “I repeat: we are speaking of blatant, undeniable exercise of political interventions during investigations and the arraignment of suspects.  Prior incumbency of the position of National Secretary of a ruling party has demonstrated the potent interventionist clout that can be wielded from that office. “The president has personally received, and thus anointed the new incumbent.  Since he remains central to any re-investigation – whatever  form or direction it takes – just what  value of objective assessment can be placed on the presidential pledge?” With this scenario, the Nobel Laureate said that investigative revisit was already hamstrung and disrobed of credibility.