Akwa Ibom State governor and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party!(PDP), Mr. Udom Emmanuel, has posited that the country was in an economic war and that the party cannot afford to send recruits to fight the war, with Generals like him in the kitty. Governor Emmanuel stated this when he consulted the national leadership of the PDP in Abuja on his presidential aspiration, which he said was a mission to rescue the nation. Mr. Emmanuel, who said he was eminently qualified by his education, exposure and evidence-based governance of his home state of Akwa Ibom, submitted that he has time-tested solutions, which can revamp the economy, restore security to all parts of the country and fix the current infrastructure deficit. Responding, the national chairman of the PDP, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, commended Governor Emmanuel for the very excellent manner he has administered his state. Specifically, he commended the Governor for IbomAir, which he said, is the only airline that keeps to time in Nigeria. Ayu lamented that previously, owning an airline in the country was like “rocket science” until Governor Udom made a huge success out of it. The PDP national chairman, who acknowledged the practicality of Mr. Udom’s governance propositions, wished the presidential ticket of the party was the prerogative of the National Working Committee, thus, it would have been easy to hand same to Akwa Ibom state governor. Assuring that with the current mood in the country, the PDP was just waiting in the wings to take over the Presidential Villa, Dr. Ayu commended Mr. Emmanuel for sticking to issues without attacking fellow aspirants. On his part, the national secretary of the PDP, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, while moving a vote of thanks, said that Governor Udom Emmanuel was one of the people Nigerians were waiting for to come and rescue them. With the current situation of things across Nigeria, he noted that only a rescue mission can turn things around. Governor Emmanuel was accompanied by the chairman, his Campaign Council, Gabriel Suswam; Director General, Col. Habibu Shuaibu, (Rtd.); former Minister and former National Treasurer of the PDP Alh. Bala Buhari OFR; immediate-past National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan; immediate-past National Youth Leader of PDP, Hon. S.K Ude-Okoye; former Akwa Ibom State chairman and current National Ex-Officio Member of PDP, Obong Paul Ekpo; and the campaign zpokeperson, Bola Bolawole. Others were Dr. Moshood Fayemiwo, Dr. Victor Adoji and Comrade Ini Ememobong.