A non-profit outfit, Dream Catchers Academy (DCA) that provides orphaned/indigent girls free formal and arts education, a home, food and welfare has called on the Lagos state government to give full accreditation to Free Arts School, in other to give students quality education. The Free Art School was launched in 2016 mainly as a dance group, with five girls as pioneer students but has grown to over 30 girls. Now with its own building, DCA believes it is more equipped to do more with plans to take up to 60 primary school girls and 40 secondary school girls in their annex. Speaking at the inauguration of the school building, the executive director and founder of DCA, Seyi Oluyole, said, “Today marks the beginning of a new chapter in our lives, a legacy that would outlive us and I am grateful to have been chosen by the universe to be able to impact and bless young girls. “Slums are special daunting conditions for young girls and the environment are usually laden with poverty, trauma and most especially, girls are the primary target of gender violence. Many young girls who live in slums are often treated with rapes and trafficked by people who promised them false stardom. “But for us to change the narrative, we strive to provide hope and opportunities to thrive in formal education but also support the dreams of their artistry.  We want to replicate this in every of the country and beyond. “She said, “There is need for government to support this vision by accrediting the school because art education provides not just psychological benefit or economic empowerment, but the realisation that we are all unique beings and more so, arts and entertainment is one of the area the country increases its Gross Domestic Product (GDP),” Oluyole added. Senior special assistant on education to governor of Lagos state, Adetola Salau, who represented both the commissioner for education as well as deliver the goodwill message of governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said, the government supports programmes like this by allowing them to exist and will encourage and promote it. On accreditation, Salau said, “we will help and guide them and see what we can do to help programmes like this become mainstream. We are focused on ensuring that our children’s dreams and hopes and their futures will be exceeding.  We will help remove limitations that the centre faces especially as it affects girls.”
Supporting the centre, chief executive officer, Afrodroids, Owo Anietie who donated a percentage of profit from his NFT project, said, “Anybody that drives on the streets of Lagos, see all these kids on the streets begging you for money, if you help one, there are many other out there. I believe that if we help Dream Catchers Academy, we are helping them to reach more people.” Sharing her testimony is Adebayo Oluwaseun, ” Dream Catchers Academy has impacted my life. I lost my father when I was four years, and I lived in an uncompleted building with my mother and my three siblings. We were unable to feed ourselves. We were out of school and had no support from relatives. “To the glory of God, Aunty Seyi heard our story, she took me in as a daughter and provided free formal education, health insurance and accommodation. She has been doing all this when I was seven years and now I am 12 years and I have even travelled out of the country not once,” she claimed.