As more Nigerians continue to migrate from the country, the banking industry has also begun to feel the brain drain as bankers are coming together to train more staff for their depleting human resource. This was revealed by the managing director/CEO of Sterling Bank, Abubakar Suleiman at the end of the Bankers Committee meeting last week. According to him, banks in the country will be collaborating with the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) to increase training particularly in the software engineering area. The brain drain in the country had started from the medical profession and has recently hit the banking industry as staff moved from the industry to the financial technology sector or moved out of the country. Suleiman had affirmed this as he said the issue came up at the last Bankers Committee, noting that, “we extensively discussed the impact of the great resignation, where with so many of varied experience talent, especially in the areas of software engineering, either leaving the industry or leaving the country.” Thus, he said, the banks had committed to using industry platform, the CIBN, to drive the process of training more skills in the areas where there have been evident deficit. This, he said, is “in the hope that this would improve the availability of talent within the banking sector to drive innovation. This will be funded by the industry and will be part of our contribution towards talent development. “We also in reference to the conversation around the naira, we also highlight the fact that the inner is another platform that has been put forward by a central bank with the hope that it will then enable more innovation, just like the previous payment platforms. “The new platform enables the current state of innovation in the payment services industry. We expect that this will also drive innovation, as it becomes more commonplace. And we look we’re hoping that the adoption in the near future will enable innovators in FinTech as well as in other tech areas to use the platform.”