There was need to build a fiscal framework that supports the national budget; improve internally generated revenue, block tax leakages, create new tax sources, and promote effective tax collection. The President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration and indeed Nigeria was in dire needed of a realizable economic instrument to help government generate more funds, especially non-oil revenue to deliver on its mandate to the people. That drive birthed the Finance Bill 2019 that was later approved by  the National Assembly and signed into law by the president. The law was meant to support the implementation of the federal budget. Since then, the Finance Act has been an annual legal framework for fiscal operation. Beyond serving as a budget support instrument, the Act strengthens Nigeria’s domestic capital market, and ultimately ensure sustained and inclusive growth and development. The Act has strategic objectives that recognise the crucial relationship between fiscal policy, the regulatory environment and the strong capital market we all seek to effect in Nigeria. From 2019 when the federal government (re)introduced the finance bill, the plan is to always ensure that the annual budget is always accompanied by finance bills to enable the realisation of revenue projections; this supports a stronger implementation process. As rightly noted by KPMG in Nigeria, the Act reinforces the federal government’s commitment to making incremental changes to Nigeria’s fiscal framework, such that Nigeria has a fiscal framework that enables the achievement of the country’s economic growth and  development imperatives. The Finance Act is a piece of legislation that warehouses various laws for quick and focused amendments, in order to facilitate an effective and efficient operation of the national budget. The Finance Act model legislation was birthed during the military era and the last of it was the Finance (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act No.30 of 1999, passed by the government of General Abdulsalam Abubakar, to revise certain provisions of the Nigerian tax laws. The rebirth of the Finance Act came as a provision of the revised national tax policy in 2017 which prescribes that “The Ministry of Finance shall work with the Legislature to ensure that the requisite changes to tax laws are enacted together with the Appropriation Act of the same year.” Consequently, President Muhammadu Buhari presented the Finance Bill 2019 along with the Appropriation Bill 2020 to the joint sitting of the National Assembly in October 2019, the bill was later signed into law by the president on the 13th of February 2020. It heralded a new dispensation that has remained in the fiscal landscape with the subsequent enactment of the 2020 and 2021 version. The Finance Bill, 2021 (now Finance Act, 2021) was signed into law along with the 2022 Appropriation Bill, on the 31 December, 2021. The Act introduces significant changes to a 13 tax and regulatory laws in Nigeria in line with government thematic policy. The Act, amends key provisions of Capital Gains Tax Act, Companies Income Tax Act, Federal Inland Revenue (Establishment) Act, Personal Income Tax Act, Stamp Duties Act, Tertiary Education Trust Fund (Establishment) Act, Customs, Excise, Tariffs etc. (Consolidation) Act, Value Added Tax Act, Insurance Act, Nigerian Police Trust Fund (Establishment) Act, National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure Act, Finance Control and Management Act, and Fiscal Responsibility Act. Below are 20 synopsis of the Finance Act 2021 for easy understanding. Beyond the underlined areas, the federal government has also taken measures to achieve its objective. Some of these measures include: Expanding the list of VAT-exempt items (e.g. basic food items,   educational materials and medical supplies); Introducing a VAT registration threshold for MSMEs with a turnover of less than N25 million per annum; Reducing the corporate tax rate for MSMEs from 30 percent to 20 percent for Small firms (with turnover of between N25million and N100million per annum.); and exempting micro-firms (with turnover of less than N25million per annum). The Finance Act introduced over 80 amendments to the existing tax and regulatory legislations in Nigeria, including the Capital Gains Tax Act, Companies Income Tax Act, Personal Income Tax Act, Value Added Tax Act, Nigeria Export Processing Zone Act, Oil and Gas Export Free Zone Act, Federal Inland Revenue Service (Establishment) Act, and Customs and Excise Duties Act, among others. The aforementioned amendments were primarily aimed at addressing ambiguities and providing clarity to certain provisions in the laws, and also providing certain incentives to companies to mitigate the impact of COVID-19.