Scale2Save and World Savings Banking Institute (WSBI) have described the need to incentivise savings culture amongst the youths and several key markets in Africa to deepen financial inclusion for target groups to create sectoral awareness on the need to implement savings culture. This, it said, would significantly transform individuals and financial service providers in the country to prepare for future shocks. Checks from WSBI 2019 financial service provider survey reveals that attitudes to financial inclusion and low-value savings among financial service providers in Nigeria and other key markets in Africa are being significantly transformed as they have intensified their focus on customers, targeting different groups with tailored accounts and savings products. This was stated at the Scale2Save knowledge sharing event attended by key financial experts and stakeholders across the country country. Indeed, financial literacy campaign would strengthen financial inclusion in the country such that banks are engaging in mass marketing campaigns to drive inclusion through credit pull system into the formal sector for savings mobilisation. Other strategies of inclusive savings which was highlighted at the Scale2Save knowledge sharing event are the use of technology to drive savings and future awareness in the Microfinance banks, initiation of cashless policy by the CBN, financial literacy campaign, credit pull system, campaigns, symposiums and conferences on digital savings and the several project implementation on inclusive finance with five Micro finance Banks to build capacity to drive more savings awareness. Earlier, the Scale2Save programme director, Weselina Angelow, cited the need for stakeholders to share knowledge towards Nigeria’s quest for inclusive growth and economic development. According to her, “As we intensify efforts to improve financial inclusion, it is important that all stakeholders are a part of knowledge and insight-based discourse as this to improve on their processes and make informed financial inclusion decisions.” Angelow, while addressing the keynote speech, stated that the mission of Scale2Save is to support financial inclusion initiatives to help millions of Nigerian youths, women and farmers to unravel the extent to which savings help vulnerable people in the society to boost their financial wellbeing. .