A leadership and mentorship instructor and convener of Country First Movement, Prof. Chris Mustapha Nwaokobia Jnr, has called on the All Progressives Congress (APC) delegates to present the best person to lead the party’s run for the highest office of President in the 2023 general election. Nwaokobia, in a press statement titled, “A Treatise To The Delegates Who Will Elect The APC Presidential Candidate”, on Monday, said delegates must not assume that all is going to be well and must not arrogantly believe that 2023 elections will be tha same as 2015 and 2019 and so must, therefore, passionately and truthfully present a presidential candidate that fits the time and season. Nwaokobia went further to list 10 points why Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello’s candidacy should be considered by the party delegates. The statement reads: “Dear Delegates to the forthcoming Presidential Primaries of the APC, the moment is here, and the hour of reckoning is close. We cannot in the name of politics ignore the urgency of now. We cannot assume that all is well. And we must not arrogantly believe that 2023 will be the same as 2015 and 2019. We shall not have PMB and his famous 12m guaranteed votes on the card because he will be rounding up his statutory two terms. We must therefore dispassionately and truthfully navigate the waters and present to Nigerians a candidate that fits the time and the season. “As you contemplate the way forward for our Dear Party the All Progressive Congress APC, and debate the best person to lead our Party’s run for the high office of President come 2023, may you liberally consider the 10 salient points I here present to you. “Knowing that Nigerians are unanimous in the call for a new deal and a new tendency in governance. The challenge before you is to look youth-ward. In doing so you shall find Governor Yahaya Bello saying ‘folks let’s get the job of reworking and resetting Nigeria on course’. At 46years of age he is ready, willing and able to lead the challenge for the soul of Nigeria, and in so many fora he has said that the quest for a new, prosperous and great Nigeria is his unalterable commitment. “Since Nigeria is presently saddled with monstrous national security challenge. The onus is on you to choose the one who has performed best in managing the Security of his State to succeed Mr President. And without an iota of doubt Governor Yahaya Bello GYB is the best performing Governor on Security. To GYB the primacy of lives and property is nonnegotiable, he has proven that in the State of Kogi, and he wants to replicate same in glowing dimensions at the centre. Your votes at the Primaries is all he needs to begin the journey to a better and more secured Nigeria “On infrastructure, one Governor stands out having repudiated the prevalent culture of fixing an Infrastructure and spending almost as much to commission same. That Governor has turned the hitherto lacklustre State capital of Lokoja into one of the fastest growing cities in Africa. As you Google check and verify this, think Governor Yahaya Bello GYB, and present him as our Party’s Presidential Candidate, that way we can instill a morbid fear in the other Parties, and retain the Presidency come 2023. Not minding the little resources that accrue to Kogi State GYB has turned the State of Kogi around for good, and he wants to make Nigeria great again,” he stated.