The newly established $2.5bn Infrastructure Corporation of Nigeria (InfraCorp) has launched operations after months of structuring and stakeholder consultations by the promoters – Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Africa Finance Corporation (AFC), Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). LEADERSHIP obtained an official document that shows that InfraCorp has initiated selection of its first set of projects. The focus sector is transport and logistics with potential initial investment of up to N163 billion. InfraCorp was launched with an initial seed capital from the promoters of one trillion naira (US$2.5 billion) and aims to raise 3x as much in private capital over the next 3 years, and up to $37bn for infrastructure investments in Africa’s largest economy by 2030. To expeditiously deliver on its mandate, InfraCorp is planning a series of roundtables with key public and private sector stakeholders for the immediate realization of projects critical for Nigeria’s recovery, including MDAs, commercial banks, pension fund administrators and other financial institutions. It was not announced the specific projects that would be financed in the selected sectors. InfraCorp’s core mandate is to tackle Nigeria’s infrastructure deficit and generate a growth multiplier effect across critical sectors. By supporting project development, financial structuring, and private-capital mobilization, InfraCorp is expected to help combat issues of underemployment and under-investment in critical nation building assets. The board chaired by CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, InfraCorp appointed four asset managers in the summer of 2021, namely: Sanlam InfraWorks; Africa Infrastructure Investment Managers (AIIM); a consortium of Afrinvest Asset Management, Africa Plus Fund Partners, and ARC Asset Management; and Chapel Hill Denham. InfraCorp is designed to support and enable the fund managers to mobilize fundraising and investments of projects across the critical focus sectors – Energy, industrial, agricultural, telecommunications, technology, transport, logistics, and social infrastructure. InfraCorp will operate from the Capital City Abuja and Nigeria’s commercial hub, Lagos. Following a highly competitive recruitment process managed by KPMG, the transactions advisor, the promoters finalized the recruitment of the CEO and managing director, Dr Lazarus Angbazo, a seasoned infrastructure and finance professional with over 25 years professional experience. Dr. Angbazo was most recently partner, head of portfolio operations West Africa, at Helios Investments Partners, and former president and CEO of General Electric (GE) Nigeria, managing GE’s businesses in Power, Oil & Gas, renewables, healthcare, transportation, aviation, and GE Capital. Dr Angbazo serves on several public and private company boards including Nasarawa State Government’s Economic Advisory Council, Bingham University, Axxela, Tema LNG, AFGRI, Starsight, Partners International, and Opportunity International. Dr. Angbazo will be supported by a team of experienced industry experts currently being recruited. In the interim, the CEO is being supported by a lean transition team seconded by the promoters. The board held its inaugural board of directors meeting on 1 February 2022. The board will be governed by a suite of governance documentation, which were considered at the inaugural board meeting to ensure a world class governance structure for InfraCorp to position it to attract the financing required to achieve its mandate.