Issues of governance in Nigeria have not been treated with the seriousness it deserves and the country will continue to suffer for it until this trend is reversed. President Muhammadu Buhari whose administration has serviced fuel subsidy regime in the last six years once claimed that subsidy was a fraud before coming into office. The president, then a presidential candidate of the CPC in 2011 said  “Nigerians are being deceived on the issue of fuel subsidy, The federal government takes out fuel for refining, only to come back and talk about removing the subsidy. That is nonsense and an attempt by a clique with the PDP-led federal government to siphon the proceeds to be realised from the removal of oil subsidy.” Having made the above comments on the fuel subsidy regime of the PDP government, it is rather disturbing that the Buhari administration had no concrete blueprint to resolve the subsidy debacle and the treasury of the nation has been bled by the uncertainties of fuel subsidy. Despite the passage of the PiB which is expected to be operational after six months of its life, the Buhari administration is still planning to earmark a huge amount for the ‘conduits pipe’. President Muhammadu Buhari last week requested the approval of about N4 trillion as payments for petrol subsidy payments in 2022. The president in a letter addressed to the House of Representatives, titled “Submission of the Revised 2022 Fiscal Framework,” said the incremental provision by N442.72 billion from N3.557 trillion to N4 trillion was necessary in the face of current economic developments, including the increased market price of crude oil aggravated by the Russian-Ukraine war. Buhari  has asked the House of Representatives to adjust the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to accommodate the projected N4 trillion for petroleum subsidy in 2022. The president, in a letter read by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Thursday, is seeking an increment of $11 to the oil benchmark to accommodate subsidy consumption and other expenses. “As you are aware, there have been new developments both in the global economy as well as in the domestic economy which have necessitated the revision of the 2022 Fiscal Framework on which the 2022 Budget was based,” he said. “These developments include spikes in the market price of crude oil, aggravated by the Russian-Ukraine war, signiﬁcantly lower oil production volume due principally to production shut-ins as a result of massive theft of crude oil between the production platforms and the terminals.” Buhari had requested the provision of N2.557 trillion for petrol subsidy payments in 2022  while petrol subsidy payments gulped N1.43 trillion in 2021. The continuous servicing of fuel subsidies is nothing but a betrayal of trust by the current administration as many Nigerians deceitfully voted out the PDP administration following plans to remove subsidies and Buhari’s promise to end Nigeria’s years of ‘fraudulent’ subsidy regime. Despite the fact that President Buhari appointed himself petroleum minister and promised to revitalise the dysfunctional refineries and boost foreign reserves by ending the importation of refined fuel, the story has been the same. We have a serious at hand, allocation of funds to fuel subsidy keeps increasing year-in-year-out, even after the partial removal of subsidy. Unfortunately, the 14-man committee of the House setup to determine the amount of fuel consumed daily is yet to submit its report. How then can the House fairy deliberate and decide on the President’s request when there are no detailed records of the exact litres of petrol consumed by Nigerians and upon what statistics has the parliament built its allocation to subsidy. I think we joke too much, the Gbajabimila led House is planning to determine the actual volume of petrol consumption and subsidy spending by the government he is part of within a few weeks when he could not, as leader of the opposition in the House lead research that will help Nigeria out of this quagmire. When setting up the committee, Gbajabimila said, “We need to know how much we are consuming. The second is to look into refineries and state of repair and determine what will be needed to bring our refineries back to life again. “The committee has four weeks to present its report. In doing their work they should not restrict themselves to NNPC figures, as NNPC is an interested party of course. “They should go far and wide, talk to experts, talk to labour, talk to national and international experts and those who will know. Talk to the motor vehicles registration centres, we just need to determine how much petrol we consume, talk to the transport companies, deal with facts and figures.” Mr speaker, Nigerians are waiting for your findings and indeed, it should guide the House in the face of President Buhari’s new request.