Indigenes of Enugu State resident in the Diaspora, under the umbrella of Forum of Enugu State Indigenes in the Diaspora (FESID), have backed the retention of the rotational zoning arrangement in the state ahead of the 2023 governorship election in the state. They added that strict adherence to the zoning pattern which favours Enugu East Senatorial District to produce the next governor of the state in 2023 will promote peace, justice, equity and fairness. The leaders of the Enugu State indigenes in the Diaspora Forum, who revealed that their members belong to different political parties such as the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Nigeria and the Diaspora while some are apolitical, made their position known in an open commendation letter to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. The letter was signed on behalf of other members of the forum by the Presidents of Enugu State Diaspora chapters in South Africa, United Arab Emirates (UEA) and the United Kingdom, Dr. Reverend Ugwu, Hon. Kingsley Chikaodili Eze and Sir Anterus Chikaobi Eze, respectively. Others who signed the letter include the Austria Diaspora Representative, Mr. Donatus Okonkwo, Enugu Diaspora Representative, Swaziland, Mr. Marius Onyishi, Enugu Diaspora Representative, Western Cape, South Africa, Mr. Ifeanyichukwu Eze, the President, Enugu Diaspora Organization (EDO), Enugu State Chapter, Mr. Kenneth Udichi, the Vice President of EDO, Alum Mbah, and the Secretary, Hon. O. J. Uche, The Enugu Diasporans disclosed that they aligned themselves “to the directives of the PDP South East Zone that its state chapters in the zone should adhere strictly to the existing zoning patterns in each of the states”. They stated that “We equally support the declaration of the APC that it has zoned its governorship ticket to Enugu East Senatorial District”, adding: “We are emboldened by the recent proclamation by our revered traditional rulers in Enugu State which reaffirmed the existing rotational zoning arrangement that favours Enugu East Senatorial District and their advice to all politicians in the state to respect and adhere to the established zoning arrangement”.  The Enugu State Indigenes in the Diaspora commended Gov. Ugwuanyi “for the enduring peace and good governance he has entrenched in the state, in spite of all the challenges in Nigeria bordering on economic, security and public health issues”.  The Enugu Diasporans maintained that the unprecedented peace and security in Enugu State entrenched by Gov. Ugwuanyi has brought rapid socio-economic development to the state including Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), stressing that “it has also engendered peaceful co-existence among Nigerians irrespective of religious or ethnic background which has led to proliferation of businesses, and rise in the population of the state”.  They also commended the governor for providing quality and inclusive leadership in Enugu State as well as his novel rural development policy, which they said has “opened up many rural communities in the state with numerous infrastructural developments and other basic amenities aimed at giving the rural dwellers and the long neglected a sense of belonging”.  Pointing out that they “are not unmindful of the fact that Ugwuanyi assumed office as governor of Enugu State in 2015 when Nigeria was in recession and confronted with paucity of funds to attend to the basic needs of the people as well as embark on development projects” the Enugu indigenes in the Diaspora gave the governor “a pat on the back for his steadfastness, resilience, commitment, transparency, accountability and innovative and visionary approach in leading the state out of these challenges to remain one of the most peaceful and fastest developing states in Nigeria”.  They expressed gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi “for giving executive backing for the Enugu State in Diaspora Commission bill aimed at establishing the Enugu State Diaspora Commission (ESIDOM) in order to monitor the welfare of Enugu Citizens in their countries of domicile, and assist in investment and development opportunities in Enugu State”.  The forum applauded Gov. Ugwuanyi for his landmark projects and remarkable feats in other spheres of development such as welfare of state’s workers and retirees, education, health, investment promotion, housing, agriculture, judiciary, ICT innovation, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs), youth and women empowerment, among others.  “Some of these projects include the state-of-the-art first flyover bridge to be constructed by Enugu State government since its creation, located at T-junction, Nike Lake Road, Enugu, the multi-billion naira ESUT Teaching Hospital and College of Medicine projects at the Igbo-Eno permanent site, the 5,000 seat capacity Township Stadium, Nsukka, the Enugu State Infectious Disease Hospital, Enugu, and the Unity Park at Independence Layout, Enugu, beautified with monument of a gigantic roaring lion and other picturesque and aesthetic edifices at the park which serve as a tourist attraction and a place for recreation and relaxation, in line with the state government’s urban renewal drive.  “Others include the rehabilitated and remodeled ancient, historic and undulating 11km Milliken Hill-Ngwo-9th Mile road, Enugu, the 12km Opi-Nsukka dual carriageway up to University of Nigeria (UNN) gate installed with street lights and traffic lights, the Ebonyi River Bridge, Ikem, the 31km Udenu Ring road with two high-tech bridges, the 8.8km Nkalagu-Eha Amufu road in Isi-Uzo LGA, neglected for over 35 years, and the 13km Nike Lake junction-Harmony Estate-Amorji Nike-Adoration Pilgrimage Centre-Orie Emene road linking the ever-busy Abakpa Nike with Emene satellite town in Enugu East LGA. These roads are included in the about 700km urban and rural roads so far covered by Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration.  “On a special note, we laud Governor Ugwuanyi for making our foremost citadel of learning, the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu, which has witnessed massive infrastructural transformation under his administration, a degree-awarding Institute.  “We are delighted at Enugu’s outstanding ratings, under Governor Ugwuanyi’s watch, as the second most advanced state in Nigeria on the Ease of Doing Business and third on the Ease of Starting Business; among the six (6) economically viable states in Nigeria and among the only three states out of the 36 states of the federation that have fulfilled obligations to their workers; the fifth most competitive state in Nigeria; the third most debt sustainable state in Nigeria; the first state in Nigeria to publish its Audited State Final Account for three consecutive years; and first in the South East geo-political zone to do same, among others”, they said.  Throwing their weight behind zoning, the Enugu Diasporans, who equally identified themselves “a group of like minds from Enugu State resident in the Diaspora comprising educationists, entrepreneurs, businessmen, politicians, and renowned professionals in other fields of human endeavour”, further stated: “We wish to state categorically that we are in full support of the established rotational zoning arrangement in Enugu State which favours Enugu East Senatorial District to produce the next governor of the state in 2023.  “We are grateful to the founding fathers of Enugu State, leaders, party faithful and indigenes, who have altruistically and truthfully spoken out in favour of the retention of the rotation of governorship seat in the state in the spirit of peace, justice, equity and fairness.  “We are optimistic and confident that going by Governor Ugwuanyi’s track record in public office and successive elections under his leadership, Enugu State will witness smooth succession and transition of power in the 2023 governorship election in total adherence to the conventional rotation of the governorship seat.  “We passionately and patriotically appeal to the good people of Enugu State who cherish the prevailing peace and good governance in the state to continue to pray and encourage our peace loving, visionary and God fearing governor to fully actualize his sound vision for the state, finish strong and bequeath more worthy legacies to his would-be successor”.