He got hit by the piercing bullet of the murderous vampires abound the ill-fated Kaduna-Abuja train. He was a hardworking young Nigerian caught down by the fatal blow of life, deadly patriotic, relentlessly an optimist and an incurable lover of God‘s words. He cut the garb of a man with just one thing; purposefulness! It is hard to believe that easy-going, respectful and culturally domesticated Tibileri Mosugu the boy soldier is no more! All he wanted in life was to make his young family proud, he denied himself the fun that comes with youthful zest just to make a respectful father and husband. He was the ideal man that every woman cherished and his thoughtful, understanding and godly wife cherished this about him. Just three days to his 10th wedding anniversary, death came calling in the cruellest manner, Tibileri was silenced by the unfair bullet of the terrorists. A lawyer of cultivated finesse, thorough and thoughtful in his dealings. He approached life with all the guides that come with it, highly intelligent and cerebral – the cases he handled and won are countless, he was a young lad with a defined purpose and it was in pursuant of this creed that he met his unfair end. With his family in Abuja and business base in Kaduna, he shuttled between these states, this he did every week until this ill-fated trip. In fact, he had returned from Benin, stopped in Abuja in embrace of his family in what has now become his last time with them, proceeded to Kaduna and the rest is the unbelievable reality that Tibileri the boy soldier is gone! He started life as a boy soldier in the famous Nigerian Military School Zaria where he rose in discipline, hard work and patriotism. He was a defender of the Nigerian dream, stoic and unrepentant nationalist and carried in pride the creed of nationalism. Those who killed him killed a true patriot. They extinguished a burning flame of ideas, passion and zeal. They killed a man who didn‘t even hurt a fly, a peaceful man in all ramifications. Tibileri died too young, too soon and untimely. He had life ironed out in fulfilling timetable, but those who regaled in killing dreams shattered the promising voyage of this Ogori Magongo lad and ebullient, kind and christlike Tibileri Mosugu lay motionless in the morgue cut down at his prime. Dear brother, they killed your body but they fail to kill your soul, they halted your strides but failed to erase your traces, in just 43 years on this earthly sojourn, you did carve a niche in pleasurable references of service to fatherland, personal accomplishments and the discovery of christ that manifested in all you did. Time, it‘s hard to say goodbye because it‘s just morning, not yet dawn. Tibileri Mosugu’s death in the ill-fated Kaduna-bound train hasn‘t only rattled the sleepy but homogeneous Ogori community of Ogori-Magongo Local Council of Kogi State but devastated the Nigerian Bar Association, alumni of Nigeria Military School, NMS, young Nigerians and the country at large. Fearless Tibileri was the son of popular Dr. Samuel Mosugu, SAN, who’s the Otaro Igoli Udeji 111, of Osobane, Ogori. The patriarch has lost in Tibilire a friend and scion. Ogori has lost one of the most wonderful persons created by God. A gift to humanity cut short in his prime.A refined gentleman, eloquent and fearless Barrister at Law ‘tigure’ and a loving husband to his wife Yetunde and their wonderful kids. Our heart is heavy and constricted in excruciating pain, this guy deserves not this human cruelty. He was a man at peace with nature, he saw everyone as a friend and everywhere as home, never a man baked with a heart of bile and heart of prejudice. He preached love and encouraged love, he was our constant reminder of the awesomeness of Christ and lived his brief life recruiting souls for God. Tibileri met his end in such heinous manner that he didn‘t even have time to say goodbye to his family! Oh poor Tibileri, custodian of humility, a gamut of respect and relentless man in the pursuit of happiness. They choked him to a cruel end. With his Tibileri‘s unfair end, we are enveloped by the cold grip of despair, our hearts in turmoil. Pain and dismay confront the equanimity of our hearts in ceaseless hollering of the death of this gentleman. We are only comforted that for every reality there is a reason, God should take all the glory for a time like this and always. 