A statement issued yesterday by the Public Affairs Section of the US Embassy in Abuja, said Sobanke Idris Sunday Adereti, 24, pleaded guilty on October 25, 2021, to passport fraud and attempted bank fraud, and was sentenced to 33 months in federal prison on Thursday by US District Judge Jeremy D. Kernodle. According to court documents, in March 2021, Adereti presented a false passport and a falsely procured certified check when trying to open a bank account in Flower Mound, Texas. The check was purchased by a fraud victim who was induced into sending money to Adereti, falsely known as “Robinson Elijah.” The statement said he was likely acting as a money mule to cash the victim’s checks, adding that when Adereti was arrested, he had additional passports and bank statements in other names in his possession. Investigators determined that Adereti was also connected to scams related to business email compromise fraud and other government programme fraud.  Additionally, evidence showed that Adereti was the son of a Nigerian traditional ruler and entered the United States on a visitor’s visa in 2018, which has since expired. “Scams to steal money are around every corner,” US Attorney Brit Featherston said.  “Thanks to the keen eye of bank officials, Adereti was apprehended.  Unfortunately, many of these crimes target our vulnerable elder population.  It is up to all of us to share this awareness and look out for our greatest generation,” he added. A federal grand jury returned an indictment charging Adereti with federal violations on April 7, 2021.  This case was investigated by the Diplomatic Security Service for the U.S. Department of State, the Flower Mound Police Department, the U.S. Small Business Administration – Office of Inspector General, the United States Secret Service, with assistance from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and was prosecuted by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Texas.  “This case is part of the Department of Justice’s Elder Justice Initiative. If you or someone you know is age 60 or older and has been a victim of financial fraud, help is standing by at the National Elder Fraud Hotline: 1-833-FRAUD-11 (1-833-372-8311)” the statement added.