With barely six weeks to its first party primaries ahead of the 2023 general elections, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) set the cost of nomination and expression of interest forms for the presidential ticket at a staggering N100 million. Anyone seeking the governorship ticket will have to cough out N50 million and for the Senate, the cost is N20 million while it is N10 million for the House of Representatives. There is very little information on how the party arrived at these figures, whether any real thought or research into the socio-political realities in the country was carried out. Evidently, the prices of these nomination forms are not only exorbitant, but also raise a lot of ethical and legal issues for both the party and its aspirants. There is a long list of reasons why the costs for the different categories of elective offices sought by candidates is wrong. The high cost breeds corruption, undermines electoral campaign finance laws, negates the spirit of the Not Too Young To Run law and effectively promotes godfatherism. The dangers that political godfathers, the type practised in Nigeria, pose to the polity is well known. They could make or break a governorship aspirant and even determine how people vote during elections. They singlehandedly pick who would be governor in their states and would finance the entire campaign. The expectation is that somehow, the godfather would be paid back manifold. The height of godfather interference was the 2003 kidnapping saga of then Anambra State governor, Dr Chris Ngige. Somehow since then, the godfather influence has waned a lot, especially as many godsons subsequently shedding that yoke. However, the costs set by the APC will not only help to entrench a new form of godfatherism  – that imposed by outgoing governors, but pave the way for the ultimate goal, which is state capture. Some governors are already scheming to ensure only one of them can emerge as president. If this is not curtailed, ten years from now, only sitting and former governors will be able to afford running for president, while at the state level, they sponsor only politicians they control. This paper recalls a time when Muhammadu Buhari managed to run elections without personal riches, but with the current prices of forms, only moneybags can contest now. And that is in total disregard of today’s election laws. Afterall, it is not only the politics that is evolving, the laws have also changed. In the 2022 Electoral Act, there is a limit to how much one individual can donate to a presidential candidate. Still, Nigeria’s politics has not evolved to the extent that it is general public who contribute and finance election campaigns. We are still at the mercy of moneybags, who the laws make attempts to protect us from. Section 87(1) reads: The Commission shall have power to place limitation on the amount of money or other assets which an individual can contribute to a political party or candidate and to demand such information on the amount donated and source of the funds. Section 88(8) reads; No individual or other entity shall donate to a candidate more than N50,000,000. Yet, reports suggest that this law is already being flouted with individuals allegedly paying the N100 million nomination fee for some presidential hopefuls. There are fines and recommendations of jail time for candidates who in breach of these laws. The APC has actually tied the hands of many aspirants who cannot publicly show they can afford these forms, neither can they rely of any single individual to purchase them. Virtually all those contesting for president previously held political office and can themselves pay for these forms or call on favours from business executives. The same cannot be said about the average citizen, who have effectively been disenfranchised by the high cost of APC nomination forms. Before signing the 2022 Electoral Act into law, President Buhari made a spirited plea to members of the National Assembly delete Section 84(12) of the Act in order to protect the interest of a handful of political office holders who want to contest elections. The president should now do the same for the majority of Nigerians, both young and old and regardless of their popularity, who aspire for elective office, but cannot afford the outrageous sum demanded by his party. Asking a poor neighbourhood to raise millions of naira just for the opportunity to have their son or daughter contest for an APC ticket is itself an injustice, and an indirect way of imposing rich and unpopular candidates on the electorate.