Unarguably, the recent alarm raised by Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) about a looming shutdown of telecom services in nine states of the federation calls for worry. ALTON had expressed concern about the shutting down of telecommunications facilities in Kogi State because of taxes and other levies- related disputes between the telcos and the state government. Arising from what ALTON termed as unusual taxes and levies demanded by the Kogi state government through the State Internal Revenue Service (KIRS), the telcos raised the alarm of impending total communications blackout in the entire State and parts of Abuja with possible impact on service availability in Nasarawa, Benue, Enugu, Anambra, Edo, Ondo, Ekiti, Kwara and Niger States. We recall that following an ex-parte court order obtained by the KIRS over allegations that ALTON members are in default of tax payments to the state, some critical telecommunications sites belonging to the Telcos were sealed up by Kogi State Government. ALTON claimed that consequent upon the seal up, “members are unable to refuel power generators in these sites, a situation which has led to outage of over 70 sites including hub sites across parts of Kogi State” This newspaper gathered that some of the charges by government include Annual Right of Way (ROW) renewal; Social Services contribution; Employee Economic Development Levy; Mast site premises renewal; Fire service yearly renewal and environmental levy. It is clear that these levies were imposed by the state government as a means of not only boosting its internally generated revenue in the face of declining allocation from the federal government but also to ensure the telcos play key roles in the development of the state through corporate social services. As should be expected, ALTON insisted that its members have settled all statutory levies and taxes due to the Kogi State government and have taken necessary steps to comply with local laws that govern business activities within the state. The association said it was also worrisome that the action by KIRS could jeopardise communication services provided by its members to security agencies such as the Nigeria Police Force, the Armed Forces in addition and to other emergency and social services in Kogi and neighbouring states. The Telcos listed other implications of Kogi State government’s action to include affecting communication links to Bank Automatic Teller Machines (ATM) in Kogi and neighbouring states of Nasarawa, Benue, Enugu among others. ALTON said the outage currently being experienced, was already affecting the ability of its members to provide uninterrupted service delivery to commercial banks, Central Bank of Nigeria, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and other critical agencies of government in the aforementioned locations. There is no contesting the fact that with the raging insecurity in different parts of the country, the security agencies need interrupted communication services. Viewed from this prism, we believe that concerted efforts must be made by all those involved, to guard against blackout of telecom services except where it is absolutely necessary. We therefore, urge the Kogi state government and ALTON to explore all possible means of urgently resolving tax related disputes without necessarily resorting to blackout, which may further compound the woes of telecom service users. However, in our considered opinion, the state government did the right thing by approaching a court of competent jurisdiction that granted the exparte order upon which the decision to seal the telcos sites was hinged. The whole essence of the seal is to enforce compliance and hence the Telcos must be ready now, more than ever before, to do the needful. In our view, the Telcos must be told in an unmistaken term that there is no reason whatsoever for them to default in paying taxes and other statutory levies imposed by any state. Clearly, tax default is an economic crime that could be interpreted as sabotage because the state needs resources to provide critical services including protection of lives and property, which is the main reason for the existence of any government. Thus said, we also feel compelled to point out the complaint by businesses, across the nation, against government, at all levels, of multiple taxation and the use of excessive force in collecting those taxes. Much as we appreciate the fact that governments need resources to fund development-oriented projects and services, the businesses, in this case telcos, are in business to generate wealth for stakeholders and not just to pay taxes. As a newspaper, we appeal to both parties to apply maximum caution in their arguments and desist from taking hardline positions. The government and the telcos must always bear in mind the interest of the consuming public and, therefore, handle matters reasonably by meeting themselves halfway so as to ensure that services are provided to paying consumers. A black out is not what is needed at this time.