African Alliance Insurance Plc has partnered the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers(NCRIB) in its Insurance Awareness Walk in Abuja to deepen insurance acceptance and penetration. The Walk, which was led by the president of NCRIB,  Barrister Rotimi Edu, the NCRIB Abuja Area committee chairman, Alhaji Abass Owolabi and the managing director/chief executive officer of African Alliance Insurance Plc, Mrs Joyce Ojemudia, saw the combined team of African Alliance and NCRIB staffers sensitised the popular motor owners and park staff at Jabi about the benefits of insurance. At the event, president of the NCRIB, Barrister Rotimi Edu, urged the park to look beyond today and safeguard the future of their loved ones in the case of eventualities. In her speech, MD/CEO African Alliance Insurance Plc, Mrs Joyce Ojemudia, pointed out that, unlike the general perception, insurance is not for the rich nor wealthy. “All those small small change you spend daily can help you build a financially free tomorrow. You all know about Esusu, for example; at African Alliance Insurance PLC, we have a plan so named that not only helps you make your contributions periodically but offers a life cover in case anything happens,” she added. Responding, the Park leadership represented by the Jabi branch chairman, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Comrade Taiwo Oshobu, thanked the AAI/NCRIB contingent for the eye opening session and charged the union members to heed the pieces of advice and take up insurance plans as a contingency for life. Later in the evening, the African Alliance team hosted the Members Evening of the Abuja Area Committee of the NCRIB. There, the company’s giant strides in terms of claims payment, digital expansion as well as overall capacity building were brought to fore. As at the 20th of March, the firm’s MD/CEO, Mrs Joyce Ojemudia, in her speech, revealed that a total of N1.96bn had been paid in claims. “Recall that we had paid N1.42bn in first two months of the year, this means we have paid an estimated N540m more in just 20 days in the month of March! The breakdown is as follows: we paid N373.59m in Group Life claims; N291.07m in Individual Life claims; N200.27m in Takaful claims; Esusu N11.25m while Annuity was N1.08bn,” she stressed.