About seven months ago on the page, I called-out the Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila for daring to give credit to the current administration in the ongoing fight against terrorism and other forms of security challenges in the country. Precisely on the 14th of September 2021, Gbajabimila was asked to state his sincere opinion about the security situation of the country during an interview on television the speaker had this to say, “We are coming from a hole, a very deep hole that if we had maintained the pace of how we were addressing insecurity at that time, I don’t know where we will be today as a nation. Don’t forget that Biko Haram had begun to plant their flags in different local governments in this country, I don’t see it anywhere right now. How far deep in the whole were we and where are we now, I will say we have made good progress, but there is a lot more to be done and that can be done, I will not score full marks on our government in terms of where we are on security but I will say that we’ve moved the needle a little bit, we must be more aggressive.” It was based on the above comment that I attacked Gbajabiamila’s views in an article titled “Mr Speaker, The Needle Did Not Move”. In the article, I opined that politics seemed to have taken over the better part of our reasoning in this country and that the gentleman speaker who by the virtue of his exposure, training as a lawyer, and experience as one of the longest-serving federal lawmakers In Nigeria, should stand out, also obeyed the norm. Now, the chicken has come home to roost, the unusual occurred during the week as the House led by the same Gbajabimila came down hard on the executive arm of government, particularly the security service chiefs, over the near state of security collapse in the country. Surprisingly, some of the vocal voices in the House who had never criticised the current administration canvassed critical views that could throw Nigeria into anarchy if not well managed. The House even took a drastic decision of abruptly adjourning plenary and suspended all legislative activities to register displeasure over the recent killings in Kaduna State. It is safe to conclude that all Nigerians, the leaders and the led are now thinking alike, and the excuse of “we’ve moved the needle a little bit” is no longer tenable. Members of the House are questioning the huge funds budgeted to tackle insecurity with little or no result. Some of them even suggested that the allocation of funds to security agencies should be withheld until a proper account of funds disbursed over the years is made. It is rather unfortunate but interesting that the House is now seeing the naked effects of collaborative corruption and being a rubber-stamp parliament. When the spending security agencies ought to be thoroughly scrutinised during budget performance evaluation and budget defences, chairmen of relevant committees would either ask them to take a bow or result in a closed-door session where contracts are negotiated. Now that the House has lost confidence in its committees and the leadership of the House has tactically taken over the oversight functions of various committees in the security sector, the same security service chief law who had always had their way with the parliament is being blamed for disrespect the institution. Do I need to remind the House that after being forced to receive reports of its ad-hoc committee that probed the quality and quantity of arms and ammunition purchased for security agencies in the country for the last 10 years, the report is still gathering dust under Gbajabimila’s carpet? My surprise can better be imagined when last Wednesday, the Deputy Speaker,  Ahmed Wase, expressed deep anger that the Service Chiefs did not turn up for a meeting to which they were invited by the House over incessant attacks in Kaduna particularly the recent one on the airport and railway that led to the loss of lives. Comments by the leader of the House, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, who said Nigerians should be allowed to take up arms and defend themselves against gunmen attacks may sound very harsh, but in a frustrating situation the country found itself, Doguwa’s should not be considered insensitive. “Mr Speaker, I rise to speak in the capacity of the majority leader who of course is the ambassador of government on this floor. “Mr Speaker, when things like this continue on daily basis those of us who are representatives of the government become speechless. We become speechless here to defend actions by the government. This is an elected government, under a popular democracy but day in, day out, there are killings, massacre, and armed robberies all over. Left, right and centre. “We can not sit down here and fold our arms, see our electorates, people who were elected into our respected offices being killed by the day. I think if there is any other thing, I should add to this motion, Mr. speaker. With due respect to our institution’s existence that on account of this institutional failure and regimental failure on the part of our security agencies because you have just no cause to raise excuse for any of them.” “With all sense of responsibility, with all sense of commitment, with the fact that yes, even after this world we shall all rise to answer our fathers’ name in the next world to account for actions.  I think Nigerians should this moment be allowed to also take arms. “Nigerians must be allowed to take up arms in defence of their innocent souls, defend their hard-earned resources and properties because it is like a monumental failure.” My message to Speaker Femi Gbajabimila and the entire 9th House of Representatives is that it is not too late to do the right thing. It is not too late to hold the security agencies accountable for their spending and it is not too late to avoid unnecessary politics in the face of the obvious collapse of the nation’s security architecture. History never forgets!    Sen. Abu Kyari, The New Deputy National Chairman Of The APC And My Lessons In Fishing Tahir Ibrahim Tahir I had a business transaction at hand and I didn’t have the funds, needed to carry it out. I went to Hon. Kyari at that time, and sought a loan, promising to pay back when I get paid. He asked me to come to the bank the following day. That was in 1999 and I was a mere 22 year old. He taught me how to open a corporate account and apply for a short term loan. He put some money as lien with the bank, guaranteeing my loan, so that if I got in trouble by not paying as at when due, the bank has his funds as guarantee, so I would only answer to him. Over and over as I did my transactions and paid the bank, he was always there to guarantee my loans with the bank, with his own money deposited. I grew into doing business with the banks and securing bonds from the bank for my businesses as a young entrepreneur, courtesy Sen. Abubakar Kyari. He schooled me on how to be an honest businessman, paying back monies I borrow for my business. My adulation and respects for him got me naming my kid Abubakar Sadiq! At the just concluded National convention of the APC, Senator Abubakar Kyari, representing Borno North Senatorial District of Borno State, got elected as the National Deputy Chairman North, of the APC. Sen. Kyari is 59 years old, born on the 15th of January 1963. He attended Capital School Kaduna for his primary education from 1968 to 1974, and Barewa College, Zaria for his Secondary education from 1974 to 1979. Kyari obtained a bachelor’s degree (BSc.) In Economics from the University of Tennessee, in 1986, and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) with emphasis on Finance, from Webster University, St Louis Missouri USA in 1989. Sen. Kyari began his political career in 1996 when he became a founding member and Protem National Secretary at United Nigeria Congress (UNC), which later became the United Nigeria Congress Party, UNCP. Kyari was elected into the House of Representatives in 1998. He was also the state Treasurer of the All Peoples Party, APP in Borno state. He was re-elected into the House of Representatives in 1999. He became the Commissioner of Water Resources 2003 – 2005, and then MD Rural Water Supply Agency, 2005 – 2007. He was later appointed Commissioner of Education in Borno, 2007 – 2008. He moved back to the Water Resources Ministry in 2008 – 2010, as a Commissioner once again. He later moved to the Ministry of Home Affairs and Information as a Commissioner from 2010 – 2011. He moved to the Works Ministry as their Commissioner in 2011, before being appointed as the Chief of Staff to Gov. Kashim Shettima of Borno State. He was elected Senator in 2015 – 2019, and re-elected Senator again in 2019 to date. Sen. Kyari was part of the engine room of the Gov. Kashim Shettima administration, that birthed the re-engineering of Borno State, to rescue it from the clutches of the Boko haram destruction. Kashim Shettima, who I call the Master Builder, has the eye for talents and achievers like Zulum and Kyari, whom he has worked with, to remodel Borno state, and put it back in its rightful place, as the capital of the North Eastern states. I’m sure every indigene of Borno would be proud of the leaders they have in the trio of Kashim, Zulum and Kyari. When I ran into the three at the same time, I could see the respect and synergy between them, as they received guests who came to ask for Sen. Kyari’s daughter’s hand in marriage. Gov. Zulum accorded Sen. Kashim all the respect in the world, and simply turned down the seat allocated to him, to lead the event. Mild drama ensued as Kashim also humbly turned down the compliment of leading the event. In the end, the three agreed to have the Senate President, Sen. Ahmad Lawan, preside over the activities. One could see why Borno is working, with Kashim’s good eye for performing administrators like Zulum. Not to bore the reader with details, but the goodies on the Table at the reception, had us complimenting and blessing Mrs. Kyari for all the food and takeaway we had. No wonder Sen. Kyari faces the world most confidently, as the home forte is ably handled. Kyari’s pick as Deputy National Chairman, brings a lot to the APC stable. He is a veteran politician, and a renown administrator with a wealth of experience that only the APC Chairman can beat. Kyari is a techy, whom I believe would definitely modernise the way processes are conducted at the National Headquarters, and across the states’ offices. Kyari is an APC thoroughbred, and is the type of loyal and steadfast leaders it needs, who have the skill, energy and forthrightness, to manage the party’s many blessings and followership. Kyari is both a technocrat and a grass-roots politician, who would be able to reachout to the vast majority of APC followership, and create a good connect with the leadership of the party and its direction. He would be able to feel the pulse of the people, and direct the party to where its people and followership pray for.  Tahir is Talban Bauchi.