The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) has called on the federal government to drop its ego and accept the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS) platform as a payment solution in all tertiary institutions in the country. COEASU said such becomes imperative as UTAS takes care of the peculiarities of the institutions including financial autonomy, sabbatical service, and the administration of discipline. COEASU president, Dr. Smart Olugbeko, who stated this in a statement on Wednesday, commended the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) for living up to its pedigree as a Union of intellectuals and eggheads as it came up with UTAS as an alternative to the controversial Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) platform. He said the intractable challenge created by the IPPIS has been a great source of worry and constituted one of the major issues causing industrial crisis in the College of Education (COE) system and others. “IPPIS breaches the establishment integrity of the tertiary institutions system, undermines the statutory functions of the Governing Councils, and opens the payroll up to unilateral manipulations. “Within a short time after its unilateral imposition on tertiary institutions by the Federal Government in February 2020, academic Unions’ opposition to it was vindicated as the IPPIS pay platform engendered several irregularities, such as salary omission, accommodation of ghost workers, mutilated salary, and inconsistency in payment of salary of staff on sabbatical and study leaves. “The payment system also enabled the Federal Government to impose baseless deductions under the guise of a new tax regime shrouded in calculative mysteries at the detriment of our members. “All over the world, research is the fulcrum of the academic community where academics proffer solutions to problems and evolve template for development. “Thus, the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) commends the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) for living up to its pedigree as a Union of intellectuals and eggheads as it came up with the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS) as an alternative to the controversial IPPIS,” he said. He noted that UTAS, being a home-grown and hack-proof payment system, addresses concerns on payroll security and the peculiarities of the tertiary education system in general. “After due considerations, our Union, COEASU, does not only welcome UTAS, but also posits that UTAS should, indeed, be adopted for the entire tertiary education sector as it takes care of the peculiarities of the institutions including financial autonomy, sabbatical service, and the administration of discipline. “We are, therefore, thrown aback by the latest game of sheer ego resorted to by the Federal Government through the lazy and mischievous blackmail of UTAS because of unsubstantiated claims of inadequacy. “The National Information Technology Development Agency’s (NITDA) assessment of UTAS done between 8th and 16th of March 2022 which subjected it to 698 cases gave UTAS 97.4% and 99.3% before and after remediation respectively,” he added.