The journey of a thousand miles begins with a step, but it is extremely important to examine all sides that lead to the successful end of a journey. Kaduna Cricket team popularly known as the ‘’Crocodiles’’ have been on the news lately with their most recent conquest of the Uganda under-19 team in Kampala, in an international friendly series that Kaduna were run-away champions with a 100% win ratio. The stellar performance was influenced by Daniel Gim’s 136 runs in four matches with the best figures of 53 runs in the opening match and Sylvester Okpe who emerged the best bowler of the Series. In the last 6 years, Kaduna State Cricket has been on the news all for the right reasons. The Crocodiles have won gold and silver at the National Youth Games, winning the National Men’s Championship in 2018, silver medal at the 2018 National Sports Festival, T20 format Men’s category gold medal and bronze medal in the Women’s category of the National Sports Festival held in Benin City, Edo State, last year. These can be considered as the most productive six years in the history of Kaduna Cricket,  adding to the fact that the state has consistently produced players for the Nigeria’s national team in all categories. The current captain of the senior men’s national team (Yellow Greens), Sylvester Okpe is from Kaduna State and we may also recall that he was the captain the history making Nigeria’s side that qualified for the ICC Under-19 World Cup for the first time in 100 years of the sport existence in the country. ‘The Malam Effect’ Let us dissect some of the steps along the path that has led to a successful journey thus far for the Kaduna State Cricket Team, ‘’Crocodile’’.  From a lame man’s perspective, when the word Malam or Aboki is mentioned, we naturally assume that we are addressing our  Northern brothers that engage in menial jobs. Some have even taken it as being derogatory depending on the context for which it is used. However, It was fascinating and much of a relief to know that Malam is simply translated as ‘Mr.’ and Aboki is translated as ‘’My Friend’’; the problem of language barriers I guess. Let’s get it straight; ‘’the manifestation of a successful enterprise is a clear reflection of the level and quality of investment’’. This brings me to the glaring point of the MALAM’S EFFECT. The effect of Mallam Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai, the eExecutive governor of Kaduna State on the Kaduna State Cricket team is worthy of acknowledgement and mention. His love for sports generally and Cricket in particular is the guiding light in the path to success enjoyed by the Crocodiles. Let us highlight some of the strategic things done by the Malam to further buttress this point. From when the Kaduna team won silver medal at the 2018 edition of the National Sports Festival to 2021 edition  in Benin, Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai has rewarded the team with; .  Cash prizes and sponsored a tour to Uganda for the boys in 2019 as a reward for their performance and also preparation for future tournaments.  Kaduna State won that series. These rewarding systems deployed by the Governor, no doubt can be regarded as turning points that have propelled Kaduna Cricket to the enviable height she currently enjoys today. It is safe to say for now that Malam Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai, arguably is the only governor in Northern Nigeria that is passionately committed to the development of cricket as it affects us with a structure and blueprint in place to ensure that the Crocodiles sustain this progress. As the first citizen of Kaduna State, he can modestly say, ‘I am just doing my Job’ but what His Excellency may not understand is that, the ripple effect of this simple gesture of developing and promoting the game of cricket in Kaduna will save the next generation of teenagers and youths for a minimum of 40 years to come. Every State in Nigeria deserves the ‘Mallam’s Effect’, Every Sport in Nigeria deserves a Malam Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai, every child deserves a fair chance to excel in life through sports and finally, every child deserves to be a cricketer. Congratulations to Kaduna State Cricket team AKA ‘Crocodile’, Congratulations to Malam Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai, Executive Governor of Kaduna State. *MUSA EHIZOJE BODIE, is the Public Relation Officer (PRO) of Nigeria Cricket Federation (NCF)