With the spate of killings going on in different parts of the country, it will be right to assume that the nation is at war because it is doubtful if it could have been this bad even in a war situation. Only recently, bandits or terrorists depending on one’s choice of word, killed over 100 persons during an attack on hapless communities of Kanam local government in Plateau State. The terrorists invaded the villages of Kukawa, Gyanbahu, Dungur and Keram of Kanam council area on the Plateau and killed scores while many were left injured. Several houses were set ablaze by the renegades who also destroyed the telecom mast thereby making it practically impossible for residents to seek help through phone calls. Less than 24 hours after the Plateau killings, and while the wailing and gnashing of teeth over the murders continued, some suspected herdsmen attacked communities in Benue, killed a monarch and 23 others, and set ablaze houses and other properties. For residents of Benue, the latest killing followed a pattern, a sequence of previous attacks and raids on communities, which often leave on its trail tales of lamentations, agony, pain and anguish. In what seems to be a national new normal, terrorists and unknown gunmen have continued to raid communities, kill and maim scores in Plateau, Kaduna, Benue, Zamfara, Sokoto, Imo and other parts of the country, almost on a daily basis. The statistics of these senseless murders are startling! It was reported that close to 500 persons were killed in the first three weeks 0f 2022 alone with 220 of the murder occurring in Niger State between January 1 and 17. The Northwestern states of Kaduna, Zamfara, Katsina, Kebbi and North-Central state of Niger have come under intense attacks by these terrorists. And yet, a governor in one of the states in that zone used the word ‘just’ to describe the death of many of his citizens as if the figure was not large enough, that the bandits should have killed more. 250 People Killed In Kebbi, Kaduna, Plateau, Benue In 1 Month In a joint report, the Community of Practice against Mass Atrocities and the Joint Action Civil Society Committee under the aegis of Nigeria Mourns revealed that terrorists killed no fewer than 1,545 persons and abducted 1,321 others within the first quarter of 2022. The intensity and indeed frequency with which killings occur in different parts of the country suggests that human life has completely lost its cherished value. It appears Thomas Hobbes had the present-day Nigeria in mind when he described human life as “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short”. Indeed, life is brutish and very short in present day Nigeria even though the nation is not at war. It is a given that, as Hobbes rightly postulated, what human beings want, above all, is to preserve their lives and property. Unfortunately, the preservation of life and property that is the main reason for a government’s existence is becoming so much of a luxury as wanton killings and destruction continue unabated in different parts of the country. One particularly worrisome aspect of these killings is that the murderous gang, which have remained elusive, literally kill just for the fun of it. This newspaper is worried that the killings seem to have defied solutions with the government issuing, on a regular basis, terse statements condemning the action only for the nation to be greeted with another grievous if not more grievous killings that often appears in sequence. It is more worrisome to note that these killings have intensified as the nation prepares for yet another election fueling widespread concerns that it could engender voter apathy especially in places where the attacks are rife. Fundamentally, these incessant killings have continued to question the government’s capacity to protect lives and property. Like most Nigerians, we are worried that a government that came to power on the thrust of combating insecurity is sounding helpless, if not overwhelmed, in the midst of these wanton killings. In our considered opinion, it cannot be said with any modicum of exactitude, that the government has a solution to the patently endless killings, kidnapping for ransom and other high profile criminality that has continued to force Nigerians into living in constant fear. Even though as a newspaper, we refuse to accept the notion that the present administration lacks the wherewithal to combat the security challenges facing the nation, we are tempted to say it appears security is not the government’s priority. If not how come it is proving difficult to rout these renegades and unmask their sponsors if any? One thing is certain: Nigerians cannot continue to live and die under the dictates of killers, kidnappers, rapists, and sundry criminal groups that have deprived the citizens of their inalienable rights to life and peaceful living. There has to be an end to these killings, which unfortunately are becoming our new normal!