A civil society organisation under the auspices of Equal Rights and Value Gender Advocacy Forum (ERVGAF), has described the call by a Nollywood actress, Georgina Onuoha, for the revocation of the medical licenses of Pastor Paul Enenche of Dunamis International Gospel Center and his wife, Dr. Becky, over the death of popular gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, as ridiculous. The group in a statement signed by its national coordinator, Mr. Johnson Obiora, which was made available to journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, said that the call by the actress was baseless and misplacement of priority. Obiora stressed that the issue on the ground has nothing to do with the medical licences of the Dunamis pastor and his wife, saying that both Dr. Enenche and his wife are qualified medical practitioners in Nigeria, legally registered to practice medicine in Nigeria, and the Nigerian Medical Council has a constitution with explicit provisions of what disqualifies a medical doctor in the Federal Republic of Nigeria and if need be, and not by a mere call of a Nollywood actress. He further said that the revocation of a licence can only be contemplated when the practitioner is unable to carry out his duties as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution on the grounds of misconduct, unprofessionalism, insanity, or ill-health. “It is regrettable and despicable that despite these clear provisions of the constitution, some persons lurking under the cloak of quasi-celebrity personality and looking for cheap popularity choose to amplify calls for revocation of the licences of medical doctors who turned great man and woman of God. “These pseudo-Nollywood personality has taken her act theatrics to another level with calls on Enenches licenses to be revoked. Like one dancing naked in the market square, these pestles-wielding critics premised their contention on the prevailing revelation of a killer-husband of late gospel singer, Osinachi. Anybody that follows the ministry of Dr. Enenche and his wife will testify that they both preach against abusive marriage and have always condemned it in totality. “The call for revocation of his license is preposterous and begotten from sheer bitterness. The Senior Pastor of Dunamis is a strong man of God that has also paid his dues both in medical profession and ministry and both the service of the nation at large. “What then is the justification for these calls? Deductions from her irrational presentation betray the fact that she is amongst the same people sponsored by ‘deep pocket’ enemies within to overheat the polity. “The call to revoke his licence and that of his wife is not only unfortunate but irresponsible and myopic. How else can one explain the call by a Nollywood actress for the revocation of a medical professional licence without any fault in a sane society? These persons and their sponsors should know that Nigeria is bigger than their pedestrian and parochial interests of myopic,” Onuoha stated.