Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria launched a double packed proposition for women, in commemoration of International Women’s Day and to wrap up the month-long celebrations for women in March to help women advance financially and sustainably. The initiatives, which are Women Banking and Women Winning with Wealth (WWwW) proposition are unique and well-researched offering, which will enable women entrepreneurs to acquire comprehensive financial and investment support as well as mentoring to start and grow their own businesses, increase their net worth, expand their investment capacity, achieve financial stability, and more. Speaking at the event, head of Corporate Affairs, Brand and Marketing, Standard Chartered Bank, Dayo Aderugbo highlighted how they work as one in pursuit of their goal, to reduce gender inequality and empower women development through financial education, opportunity and stability Aderugbo noted that, at this opportune moment in time, when people are exploring new opportunities, women are at the forefront of innovation and technology that continues to push frontiers once considered impossible. According to her, for us as women, there has never been a more important time to express ourselves and strive for success in the areas that matter most, which include wellness, security, financial stability, freedom, and most importantly, to be the best version of ourselves. At Standard Chartered, we also recognize that we need to lean into this moment, to support and accelerate change, innovation and transformation that benefits every human being, especially women. As part of its key objectives, Standard Chartered Bank is intent on improving the lives of one billion people by unleashing the full potential of women in its core markets, with the focal point being the creation of financial stability and road paths for women to attain equitable access to financial support, especially for small businesses. The bank is also committed to accelerating the provision of quality financial services to women across its markets, purposefully connecting Small and Medium Enterprises to the international market and building partnerships to expand the reach and scale of financial services. The bank’s commitment is demonstrated by its strong support of women in leadership positions such as having Racheal Asonibare as chief information officer (CIO), Sola Mabadeje as company secretary and Yemisi Deji-Bejide as head of Standard Chartered Capital & Advisory Nigeria as well as current independent non-executive directors on the Bank’s Board, Adiba Ighodaro and Bisi Lamikanra. This builds on the bank’s legacy of ensuring women in leadership to foster equality and inclusion, having had such women such as erstwhile Bola Adesola who served as former managing director/CEO, Bola Adesola. Aderugbo stressed that the Standard Chartered Bank culture is one of inclusion where men champion women to win, saying “so no competition exists between both genders.”