 Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), have intercepted cocaine concealed in teabags at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja and Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos.  Also, at least, four traffickers involved in the attempts to import and export illicit drugs through the country in the last week were arrested and now in the custody of the NDLEA.  NDLEA spokesperson, Femi Babafemi, said one of the suspects is 33-year-old Pascal Ekene Okolo, an indigene of Ihe in Ogwu local government area of Enugu State, who was arrested during an inward clearance of Qatar Airways flight from Sao Paulo via Doha at the arrival hall of the Abuja airport on Sunday, April 17.  Okolo, who claimed to be into wine business in Brazil, was arrested with a travelling bag containing different medicinal teabags, which were used to conceal 4.1kilograms of cocaine.  Same day, a Canada-based Nigerian, Anigo Christian Godspower, was intercepted at the D-Arrival Hall of the MMIA, Ikeja, during an inward clearance of passengers on Qatar Airways from Sao Paolo via Doha to Lagos.  When his luggage was searched, two blocks of Cocaine with a total weight of 2.10kg were discovered.  The 52-year-old Anigo who hails from Udi local government area of Enugu State claimed he operated an unregistered Bureau De Change business before delving into the illicit drug trade.  The bid by another cartel to export 950grams of Heroin concealed in the soles of lady’s footwears through the MMIA cargo shed was equally foiled by anti-narcotic officers, who have so far arrested two suspects linked to the crime.  Those arrested between April 16 and 17 in connection with attempt to export the drug to Monrovia, Liberia include: Idokoja Solomon Chukwurah and Patrick John Tochukwu.  Meanwhile, NDLEA operatives in raids in Kano, Kaduna, Benue and Akwa Ibom States, have seized no less than 88,734 doses of Tramadol, Pentazocine, Diazepam and Swinol.  In Kano, Aliyu Usman, 28, was arrested at Railway area of the state capital with 47,000 capsules of Tramadol and 2,000 ampules of pentazocine injection on Tuesday, April 19 while Saminu Usman, 28, was nabbed with 24,710 Tramadol tablets at Gadar Tamburawa area of Kano two days earlier.  In Benue, another dealer, Emeka Eze, was arrested at an NDLEA checkpoint at Adikpo, Kwande local government area of the state with 10,000 Tramadol capsules and 900 tablets of swinol, while in Kaduna state, the duo of Raphael Daniel and David Musa were arrested at Mando park, Kaduna with 1kg of Cocaine on Thursday, April 21, 2022.