The Presidency has berated the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for allegedly attempting to wrongly place events in the nation’s economic and sociopolitical history. Reacting to a recent communique by PDP Governors’ Forum on the state of affairs across the country, the Presidency noted that the opposition party’s leaders played the Ostrich by attempting to indict the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government in its handling of the economy, while leaving a critical element like the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The PDP governors recently met in Umuobiakwa community, Abia State to X-ray, among other things, national affairs and issued a communique, which generally indicted the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) government over the economy, security, infrastructure and other issues, concluding the party was not fit to run the country any further. However, in a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the Presidency threw the blame back at the opposition party, highlighting side-by-side the damages done by PDP in its 16-year rule and how the APC government had worked in the last seven years to refocus the country. “Today with the APC, the army is resourced, we have fighter jets from our partners, Boko Haram is being driven from every inch of Nigerian territory, and ISWA’s leader eliminated in a Nigerian airstrike. “We cannot ignore how PDP politicians sought – and continue to seek – to inflame ethnic and religious tensions by refusing to even proffer a solution to the herder-farmer clashes which became most prevalent under their misrule. “Today with APC in government, there are ranches on Federal land and in state land where there is the willingness to establish them. Clashes are reduced. Lives are saved, and livelihoods are enriched. “We will always remember how PDP politicians intentionally encouraged and exploited the black market in currency exchange to convert ill-gotten gains to foreign currency and undermine our national currency, then spirited their funds abroad in their billions and into foreign bank accounts. “Today with APC we support our national currency; we have achieved self-sufficiency in rice and fertilizer production; we refuse to allow greedy politicians and businessmen to hide their money overseas, and instead build an economy here in Nigeria for all. “We will always know how PDP politicians raided the NNPC, consistently failed to pay into the Federation Account and, in the last year of PDP misrule, $20 billion dollars was simply found ‘missing’. “Today with APC, funds from NNPC are directly and transparently used to fund social and health programmes – such as COVID-19 response, the construction of roads, bridges and rail, and equipping of hospitals to cope with new and existing challenges,” he said. It further carpeted the opposition governors of the opposition party, who were signatories to the communique, noting that their antecedents make them unfit for the trust of Nigerians, adding that they have for long profited from playing divisive politics, setting the nation up in flames by fanning hate. He added: “And then there are those PDP leaders in attendance who signed the Communique. Who would trust such people with the running of our country? “Who can believe a word these people say, as they looked outwardly stylish but harrowed by power-sharing and other troubles inwardly? “These people, who play politics of division and hate, create communal disturbances, need to change. “The Governors reeled out numbers on the economy, pretending as if the once-in-a-life COVID-19 pandemic, with its huge and devastating effect, disrupting global supply chains, uniformly battering the world economy, never happened. “Covid-19 brought suffering and hardship to the doorstep of the entire global community-less maybe, of the affluent and pretentious PDP Governors-and to the credit of this administration, Nigeria’s economy recovered faster and stronger than the entire world ever imagined. “Check the facts and leave the politics: What does the country get with this kind of gimmick?”