Before now, there was no doubt that Nigeria has been thrown to the wild wind of insecurity and culture of violence that not only ripped but still ripping apart our nation. Just recently, Kagoro in Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State, came under a fiery attack penultimate Sunday by daredevil terror gang who were  reportedly dressed in military uniforms. By the time the siege was over, no fewer than 34 were left dead. As if the angels of death intended the attack to be a prologue to sustained bloodstain in the coming days, Giwa local Government Area of Kaduna State came under fire last weekend. As at last Saturday, no fewer than 50 were reportedly killed, with scores abducted for ransom negotiation. Just when the defenceless residents of Giwa were about counting their losses, the merciless outlaws again returned in fierceness, leaving about 15 people dead, with many homes reduced to ruins. While citizens were still groaning over the spasms of assaults, news reports filtered that bandits have taken over the Kaduna Airport after they killed a worker of the Nigerian Airport Management Agency (NAMA). An unconfirmed video clip on the attack mounted by bike-riding gunmen running riot over the airport’s runway trended for several days. Without a break in the sustained attacks on Kaduna, the next targets of the criminals was the Kaduna bound train that was bombed less than 15-minute to its destination. Under gunfire by the bandits, the VIP section of the train was invaded by bullets that killed some, while a number of fright-ridden unidentified passengers were herded into the bush. Going by the number of casualties released by the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) after the attack, it’s apparent that the number of those killed and abducted won’t be ascertained. Not a few Nigerians have always maintained that corruption is the operating system of the Abuja-Kaduna train service presently being operated at a loss. The Ministry of Transport has always paid shopping sums of funds running into millions of naira on a monthly basis to the NRC to subsidise the shortfall. Not many believe the bombed train was carrying less than 400 passengers. The ill-fated train and aftermath of conflicting tunes that have continued to trail the exact number of passengers reflect the corruption embedded in the Abuja-Kaduna route. That nearly five days after the incident Nigerians are yet to have the exact number of casualties shows clearly that we still have a long way to go in tackling the virus of corruption. It is heart-rending that after announcing the dead, there was a deliberate ploy to hide identities of three NRC cleaners, two females and a male, who were caught down in the line of duty. This deliberate act of non-profiling these cleaners amounts to labelling these dead as dispensable. If Monday’s tragedy tried the soul of our nation, the disclosure by Minister of Transport, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, at the scene of the tragedy only reveals the inscrutability behind the government’s inertia in avoiding future tragedies. Why should the Federal Government not provide equipment for monitoring rail tracks in a state that is being overrun by bandits? If last year’s daring adventure of shutting down a jet belonging to the Nigerian Air Force by bandits was anything to go by, serious forces should not have wasted time in securing the rail tracks at all times without being told. Must top heads of military services wait too long to reiterate their resolve to combat these bandits that have made life hellish for Nigerians?  How many times will the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-General Faruk Yahaya, vow to crush the bandits? Since the shutting down of an Air Force jet, all we hear is numbing numbers of bandits being decimated weekly. After the reported annihilation of insurgents and bandits that have turned our country into a vast land for bloodshed, many Nigerians now doubt the authenticity of news on the destruction of these criminals as often highlighted by the military. As it is, the fate of Nigeria hangs in the balance as many are now clamouring for quick intervention in order to ensure the survival of Nigeria. Governor Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai recently declared that Nigeria’s security forces know the hideouts of these bloody brigands and must move fast to crush them. Many are of the view that the attacks on Kaduna State is hinged on the governor’s position that calls for the complete annihilation of these terror gangs. Many audio clips purportedly released by some of these criminal gangs have warned of dire consequences on Kaduna, following el-Rufai’s unrepentant position that terrorists and bandits deserve no mercy but bombs. As the wind of insecurity continues to expand and broaden its wings to many parts of the country, there is a conspiracy theory that the increase in the level of violence may not be unconnected with the drumbeats of 2023 presently gathering momentum. There have been hair-rising predictions that there is a certain cabal behind the increasing spates of attacks on defenceless communities with the sole purpose of forcing a shift of the 2023 polls. In the face of recurring assaults on many parts of Nigeria that have overstretched the capacity of the military, it is an inescapable fact that the nation’s security forces require a helping hand. Those who seek the destruction of Nigeria are effectively equipped and, if nothing is done to checkmate them, we may never see a United Nigeria in 2023. It does not make sense for citizens to be left at the mercy of human slayers that have proven to possess sophisticated weapons more than that of the military. The least the government can do now is to allow citizens to bear arms and confront their killers. When General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma (retd) in March 2018 called on citizens to defend themselves, many called him all sorts of names. Now that the violence is ripping across every state, even state governors have joined the clarion call for self-defence. Governors may not command troops, but their ability to influence and protect citizens cannot be underestimated. During a recent visit to Kogi State, all the checkpoints were manned by vigilante groups, comprising mainly hunters. Some locals disclosed to me that the engagement of these hunters had drastically reduced the spate of attacks by these criminals that are now living in rocks and forests. There may be some disputatious tunes over the performance track records of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, but he has never allowed the activities of these daredevil criminals to turn his state into an ocean of bloodshed and destruction. The existence of government is hinged on protection of lives and property. A government that allows coldblooded murderers kill citizens without hounding them down and bringing them to justice cannot be said to be a government. Nearly seven years in the corridor of power, the drivers of insecurity have led to the death of thousands and decimation of our once thriving communities. Considering the electoral promises that heralded the inauguration of the Buhari Presidency in May 2015, we are worse off now than before. We need no seer to warn us that the sword of Damocles hangs over the skies of our country. If we must survive the hardhearted onslaughts of these human butchers running wild over our fertile lands that have been deserted by fear-stricken farmers, citizens must be allowed to bear arms in order to protect themselves. Getting more boots on the ground through recruitment of fresh hands to strengthen the military may take a long while in confronting these blood-sucking merchants of violence. Time is not on our side to combat these terror gangs who are irreversibly committed to the annihilation of the Nigerian State. Anything less than resolving our security challenges now  is an open invitation to anarchy that is about to sweep across the country. As we enter into the closing months of the Buhari-led Presidency, one thing this government must attempt to achieve now is to tackle these attacks. Playing politics with insecurity as we have seen in the past can destroy our nationhood that is swimming in the blood of the innocent. If only we can think less of where we are coming from, then, we can save our nation.  Sadly, the present administration has not assisted us to think less of where we are coming from. These present times require patriots who think more of our nationhood than our ethnic conclaves. Insecurity cannot allow us to think of building a nation many think is tailored towards serving the interest of a particular ethnic group over others. If we must walk together as a united country, then we must build a nation where justice is served to all, irrespective of ethnic, religious and political divides.