Given that petroleum is currently the  most important  and  valuable  natural  resource in Nigeria, the government is consistently challenged in repositioning the industry for profitability and make its business transactions credibly transparent. Government is poised to ensure that crude oil is exploited in  ways that maximised  benefits to the nation through economic rents and a fair share of profits while  offering  stable and attractive terms for investors. For the producing nations, petroleum is an important source of foreign revenue and this is the reason why such an important resource should be properly accounted for to enable the government and citizens of oil producing nations maximize the benefits derivable from the natural endowment. In Nigeria, revenues from extractive industries (oil, gas development and mining) are sources of income for governments of and when properly managed and developed with the participation of affected communities, these revenues should serve as a basis for poverty reduction and economic growth. Unfortunately, too often, though, these revenues are squandered, fueling corruption, conflict and social divisiveness. The petroleum industry is the most strategic  industry all over the world and the role of oil and gas in the Nigerian economy cannot be over emphasized Transparency calls for mandatory disclosure of the payments made by oil and gas  companies to the government for the extraction of natural resources. Transparency is seen as a necessary step  towards a more accountable system for    management of natural resources in Nigeria. Furthermore according  to transparency in  revenue  leads  to  proper  management  and  financial  accounting  without  which  processes and cost cannot be mapped, reported, reviewed and benchmarked. In addition transparency in revenue generation reduces  waste  of  resources  by  its  insistence  on  the  utilization  of  minimum  input,  cost  reduction and  process improvement. The nation was jolted last week when the federal government disclosed that a total value of Nigeria’s crude oil stolen between January 2021 and February 2022 is about $3.27bn (representing N1.361tn at the official exchange rate of N416.25 to the dollar). International oil companies and their counterparts in Nigeria complained that the massive oil theft across the country currently posed a threat to not just their existence, but to the Nigerian economy. The federal government through the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission, NUPRC, met with the Oil Producers Trade Section, as well as the Independent Petroleum Producers Group in Abuja at a stakeholders’ engagement on crude oil theft. The OPTS is a body comprising IOCs operating in Nigeria, while IPPG is an association of indigenous exploration and production companies. A presentation by the NUPRC at the event indicated that oil theft rose sharply between 2021 and 2022, as an official of the IPPG stated that about 91 per cent of total crude produced at the Bonny Terminal was stolen in January 2022. In its report on the trend in oil theft, the NUPRC said, “Total value loss for the period January 2021 to February 2022 is about $3.27bn. “Average monthly value loss for the period is about $233.99m. Average daily value loss for the period is about $7.72m.” It added, “Losses are mainly from Bonny Terminal Network, Forcados Terminal Network (and) Brass Terminal Network.” The commission outlined factors that aided crude oil theft to include inadequate security, poor community engagement, economic challenges, poor surveillance, stakeholder compromises and exposed facilities. This came as the OPTS Chairman, Rick Kennedy, who is also the managing director, Chevron Nigeria Limited, and represented IOCs at the meeting, described the massive oil theft across the country as an organised criminal activity. Kennedy, who was represented by the managing director, ExxonMobil Nigeria, Richard Laing, said, “When I say it is an organised criminality, the sophistication of the engineering involved points towards a high degree of sophistication and technology, as well as the distribution. “I think we’ve just got to be honest and accept that this is not theft but more than that.” The IOCs called for a quick solution to the menace, stressing that the development posed a serious threat to their existence. “It is important that the Federal Government, industry, and a whole bunch of other stakeholders find a solution and find it quickly. That will be my strong advice,” Kennedy  stated Nigeria, lifts a daily average of 1.5 million barrels of crude, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics, NBS, despite having a maximum capacity to produce 2.5 million barrels per day. The country has been struggling to stem rampant crude theft in an economy that relies on oil for its foreign exchange. Nigeria loses about 150,000 barrels of oil per day to individuals who illegally tap pipelines crisscrossing the Niger Delta region, according to government records. Also, NUPRC, is cooperating with the NNPC and other key government agencies to fight crude oil theft in Nigeria. On the average, Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) indicated that in 2019 alone, Nigeria lost 42.25 million barrels of crude oil to theft. The product is valued at $2.77 billion. Gbenga Komolafe, Commission chief executive of the NuPRC, affirmed that government is stepping up push to quash oil theft activities estimated at $4 billion yearly in the hope that the move will strengthen production which has tumbled by over 25 per cent. Production slid from 1.7 million barrels per day to 1.5 million January through December last year, causing Nigeria to concede the top oil producing nation on the continent to Libya. The government is nursing a lofty ambition to double the current figure, Komolafe said, an aspiration that needs more than oil theft crackdown for its actualisation. Nigeria’s annual loss to crude theft is put roughly at N1.7 trillion, 31.6 per cent bigger than the annual Internally Generated Revenue, IGR and federal allocation of the nine states of the Niger Delta (the region that produces all the oil) put together, totaling N1.3 trillion for 2020 according to data from BudgIT’s State of States. Experts have also raised the need to reverse the parlous state of the sector, optimize the take of Nigeria  in  the  upstream  sector and  eradicate  corruption  in  the  sector. However, the Nigeria Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, NEITI’s 2019 oil and gas industry audit report noted a significant improvement in the compliance level by the companies and agencies in their submission of the audit templates used for data gathering for the audit. NEITI, noted in the latest compliance assessment report released in Abuja, that despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the companies and the covered entities’ response rose to about 68 per cent during the year. The NUPRC, is strongly mobilizing resources and taking a commendable political path to secure the industry and bring operators to account. Engagement has been a major tool in this journey as the Commission met with Independent Petroleum Producers Group (IPPG) and the Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS), the groups that form the core of companies drilling oil in Nigeria, as part of efforts to halt the massive oil theft in the country. Describing the phenomenon as a national disaster, the chief executive of the commission, Mr. Gbenga Komolafe, told the groups that the meeting was to share information as to the actual number of crude oil losses confronted by the entities. Although during a presentation at the event, the commission stressed that Nigeria may have lost as much as $3.27 billion to vandalism between January 2021 and February 2022, a period of 13 months, it noted that the industry figures needed to be reconciled. In addition, it put the average monthly value lost during the period at $233.99 million, while on the average, it estimated that the country may have lost as much as $7.72 million on a daily basis. However, Komolafe stressed that the issue of oil theft had become very critical to have divergent data on the menace, announcing that the reason for the meeting was to get all stakeholders’ view so as to confront the challenge using a common front. “This is a one-agenda meeting and it centres on the issue of crude oil theft. The issue of oil theft has become a very worrisome one to the nation, to the government and I believe to you as investors in OPTS and IPPG, even as it is to us as your regulators. “So, this is for us to sit at a roundtable and hear each other and share information. More worrisome, is that in recent times, we have had conflicting positions as to what is really happening in the upstream. As a responsible regulator, there’s need for us to agree on the way forward and to hear your perspective. “We need to have accurate figures. As a government we cannot continue to use abstract or inaccurate figures in a matter as important as crude oil theft. We have set up a crack team to be able to have the information we need,” he stated. Komolafe maintained that the challenge remained a disincentive to investment at a time Nigeria was in dire need of foreign exchange, assuring that the government was determined to make the industry more attractive for investors. While promising positive change, Komolafe stated that no aspect of the value chain would be unattended to, saying President Muhammadu Buhari, had directed that Nigeria must be rid of the menace. Komolafe said the government was determined to end the menace so that the country can benefit from the rising price of oil and also be able to protect the environment from oil spills. Similarly, during the presentation, the Commission disclosed that most of the crude oil losses came from Bonny Terminal Network, Forcados Terminal as well as Brass Terminal. It listed factors aiding the criminal activities as: economic challenges, inadequate security, poor surveillance, poor community engagements, exposed facilities and stakeholder compromises. The Commission stated that due to the high level of theft, the country had been unable to meet its Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) production quota. Also speaking, Senior Technical Adviser to the CEO, Abel NSA, said that the impacts of the phenomenon include loss of value-a situation where government revenue is adversely affected, increased costs-due to frequent repairs of damaged facilities and environmental degradation due to spillages by the activities of saboteurs. On actions taken to mitigate the challenge, he said work teams had been set up to deliberate on workable solutions, identify various responsible parties and propose improvement areas. In addition, he noted that a public, private approach was being adopted while the implementation of the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) was ongoing. He noted that on the community side, the outlook was to engage, carry out awareness campaigns as well as ensure prompt payment of community contractors, while the installation of check meters, engagement of competent entities for pipelines surveillance and pipelines integrity assessment were being envisaged. During a similar engagement with the Independent Petroleum Producers Group (IPPG), the managing director of Waltersmith Petroman, Chikezie Nwosu, disclosed that about 82 per cent of its members’ production was stolen in the month of February 2022. Stressing that independent producers were facing an existential threat, Nwosu explained that the oil theft challenge had jumped from about 4 per cent in the past, to a high of 91 per cent in December, 2021. The NUPRC efforts also received a Presidential backing when President Muhammadu Buhari announced the deployment of the Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Mr. Timipre Sylva, the group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari as well as the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor to assess the level of oil theft in the Niger Delta. The development followed public outrage against the massive stealing of Nigeria’s crude oil, which had hobbled the country’s ability to meet the quota allocated by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had on Monday lamented the unprecedented rate of oil theft recorded in recent times and its debilitating effect on government revenue and accretion to reserves. This is also as the Co-founder and former chief executive officer of Seplat Energy Plc, Mr. Austin Avuru, called for a state of emergency in the Nigerian oil and gas sector. He revealed that up to 80 per cent of oil pumped in the country, particularly in the East, is stolen. Avuru spoke a few days after the Chairman Heirs Holdings, Mr. Tony Elumelu, also bemoaned the worsening state of the industry, stressing that about 95 per cent of oil production does not get to the terminal. Earlier, Aiteo Eastern Exploration and Production Company (AEEPCO), operators of the Nembe Creek Trunk Line (NCTL) pipeline, had threatened to exit the facility due to incessant vandalism, perennial sabotage and outright theft. However, at the group’s first ports of call in Port Harcourt, Rivers state, Delta and Bayelsa states where Sylva who described the perpetrators as criminals, said the deployment of top stakeholders by Buhari was to underscore the importance of the situation. According to Sylva, there are three elements to the solution to the extant problem, including the communities, as in his words, “these people involved in the illegal activities are not ghosts.” Sylva argued that since the perpetrators are from communities, the host communities need to be involved in finding a lasting solution to the menace. In his comments, Kyari stated that the government had concluded plans to move against oil bunkering, pipeline vandalism and illegal activities threatening the country’s oil sector. Kyari noted that the government would leave no stone unturned to arrest the increasing spate of oil theft and destruction of the environment which had cost the country foreign exchange earnings. The team which visited various sites where illegal oil refineries were being carried out, he said, was on a mission to ensure that illegal oil refining and theft of crude oil was halted. At Ibaa which is in Emeoha Local Government of the state, Kyari and the team ordered the destruction of several illegal sites. Speaking with journalists at Ibaa, Kyari said the country could no longer afford to see her oil illegally exploited and stolen. He pointed out that the strategy being adopted would finally arrest the situation. He commended the security team in the effort to stop denying the country the much needed resources for economic development. The NNPC GMD warned that stakeholders are not being left out in the quest to find a lasting solution, adding that the Navy were also on top of the situation, assuring that the task of destroying illegal oil refinery will not stop until the problem is resolved.