The wife of the Ondo State governor, Mrs Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, has declared her intention to run for the Imo East senatorial seat in the 2023 elections. Mrs Anyanwu-Akeredolu, who made the disclosure on Friday while addressing journalists in Owerri, Imo State capital, said her decision to run for Senate stemmed from a desire to correct the perceived neglect of the area by successive administrations. According to her, the level of neglect had ensured that the area remained remote despite the rapid urbanisation of other parts of the state. She also lamented the lack of standard medical facilities in the area and the number of preventable deaths occasioned by the situation. She, therefore, stressed the need to look into the problem and proffer solutions such as improving the quality of life of the people. The Ondo governor’s wife stated that her desire to contest elective office was informed by a deep-seated interest in the goings-on in her community and the desire to change the narrative. She added that she had demonstrated her ability to handle the position with the many developmental projects she already attracted to the area in the past. “I have deep interest in human capital development and a deep-seated desire to improve the lives of my people from Imo State. “Although my matrimonial leaning is in Ondo, I have ensured that my developmental projects as the wife of a sitting governor are extended to my maiden state. “I have attracted the construction of a 10.5 kilometre road worth N1.6bn from the Niger Delta Development Commission and it is currently under construction. “I have also sponsored no fewer than 2,000 girls with technological knowledge with special focus on Information Communication Technology among others,” she said. She further called for support from well-meaning Imo people and Nigerians at large to enable her bring her plans to fruition. Speaking, chairman of the Correspondents Chapel, Imo State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Chris Njoku, thanked Mrs Akeredolu for her good works in the state. He described her as a detribalised leader and pledged continued collaboration with her so as to ensure that the projects which she already initiated in the state would be expanded, for the overall good of Imo people and Nigerians at large. “We have noticed your good works, your people-friendly initiatives which are positively impacting on our people and we pledge our continued collaboration to ensure that more democracy dividends come to our people,” he stated.