The federal government has outlined plans to raise Nigeria’s crude oil production output by additional 800,000 barrels per day, to enable it take advantage of the current rising trend in the price of the commodity  globally. Nigeria’s oil output has dropped in recent years as a result of pipelines vandalism and crude theft. Data from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) puts Nigeria’s crude output at 1.26 million barrels per day (bpd) as at February 2022. Chief executive officer, Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), Mr Gbenga Komolafe, in his keynote address at the 2022 Oloibiri Lecture and Energy Forum (OLEF), said the recent increase in the price of crude oil, mostly occasioned by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the attendant disruption of the global demand-supply chain has reawakened the call for geopolitical energy security and sustainability. The forum, themed “Global Energy Transition: Implications on Future Investments in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry” was organised by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and hosted by the Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF). To this end, Komolafe who was represented by Chief Technical Adviser to the NUPRC CEO, Engr. Abel Nsa noted that the Commission is set to increase oil production in Nigeria by empowering existing producing marginal field players by granting them separate Petroleum Mining Lease (PML). He said, “Likewise, undeveloped existing marginal fields and the incoming marginal field awardees, including future awardees would be granted a Petroleum Prospecting License (PPL).” According to him, the business opportunity ensuing by this gesture includes but not limited to easier access to attracting funds and more operational flexibility. “The newly introduced National Grid System and Acreage Management for Upstream Petroleum Operations administration in Part II of the PIA 2021 aim to open up derisked acreages and to encourage the participation of more players in the Nigerian oil and gas space, thereby eliminating entry barriers.” Komolafe stressed that Nigeria would need to increase crude exploration and development drilling to optimise reservoir extraction, drill into new targets, and employ technological advances to maximise production yields for appropriate energy mix. “In light of the global energy transition, funding for oil and gas projects is a huge challenge as funding sources are now predominantly channeled towards renewable energy projects. The clarity in the fiscal regime provided by the PIA will hopefully help to turn the tide around, especially as regards some importantupstream projects that have been stalled due to financing. “Some of these projects, including the Preowei project, the Bonga South West Aparo project, the Bonga North project, and a host of others, when completed, all have the combined capacity to add upwards of 800,000 BOPD to Nigeria’s production figures,” Komolafe said. Speaking earlier, minister of state, petroleum resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, reiterated the need to consolidate our resources, develop cross-border infrastructure and expand regional energy market to guarantee long-term energy security. Chief Sylva, who was represented by the permanent secretary, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Dr. Nasir Sani-Gwarzo, noted that the risk of limited international financing could jeopardise Nigeria’s energy transition and roadmap to attaining net-zero. Sylva said adequate financial resources, technology development and effective policies designed to encourage investments in the oil and gas industry in Nigeria, are required to enable the country meet the increasing demand for energy. “This actually informs our renewed effort to ensure a full implementation the Petroleum Industry Act recently signed by President Buhari.” “Nigeria’s goal should be energy sufficiency in order to ensure energy security, and end the ravaging energy poverty in the country. This is required to drive our economic growth, and end the prevailing economic poverty. Nigeria needs affordable, reliable and sustainable energy resources to eradicate the prevalent energy poverty in the shortest time possible, and propel economic growth. “For countries such as Nigeria, that is rich in natural resources but still energy poor,the transition must not come at the expense of affordable and reliable energy for people, cities, and industries. The only viable option currently on the table is oil and natural gas, combined with appropriate technology to make them cleaner,” the minister said. Chairman, Society of Petroleum Engineers, Nigeria Council, Prof. Olalekan Olafuyi,  in his welcome address, said currently the world was facing a serious energy challenge that required an all-inclusive approach that could address specific regional problems with their peculiarities. Olafuyi said the outcome of COP-26 which had created a campaign against fossil fuel funding had been challenged by the recent energy crisis resulting from the Russian invasion of Ukraine. “Now is the time for us to formulate frameworks and adopt best practices for the United Nation’s SDG goals 17 addressing affordable and sustainable energy for all and #13 combatting climate change. “And, at the same time maintain the United Nation’s SDG one and three which are centred around ending poverty and promoting healthy living, which is the essence of our very existence on this planet. He said the SPE Nigeria Council would continue to play a pivotal role in shaping policy direction and execution by ensuring that the outcome of these conversations was well documented and presented to the authorities.“For countries such as Nigeria, that is rich in natural resources but still energy poor,the transition must not come at the expense of affordable and reliable energy for people, cities, and industries. The only viable option currently on the table is oil and natural gas, combined with appropriate technology to make them cleaner,” the minister said. Chairman, Society of Petroleum Engineers, Nigeria Council, Prof. Olalekan Olafuyi,  in his welcome address, said currently the world was facing a serious energy challenge that required an all-inclusive approach that could address specific regional problems with their peculiarities. Olafuyi said the outcome of COP-26 which had created a campaign against fossil fuel funding had been challenged by the recent energy crisis resulting from the Russian invasion of Ukraine. “Now is the time for us to formulate frameworks and adopt best practices for the United Nation’s SDG goals 17 addressing affordable and sustainable energy for all and #13 combatting climate change. “And, at the same time maintain the United Nation’s SDG one and three which are centred around ending poverty and promoting healthy living, which is the essence of our very existence on this planet. He said the SPE Nigeria Council would continue to play a pivotal role in shaping policy direction and execution by ensuring that the outcome of these conversations was well documented and presented to the authorities.