Avila Naturalle Ltd has unveiled multi-talented actress and film-maker, Toyin Abraham Ajeyemi as its brand ambassador as part of efforts to further engage its teeming customers. Avila is a frontline manufacturer of fast growing natural skincare products and households brand in Africa. The unveiling, which took place recently in Lagos is in tandem with the company’s ongoing campaign tagged ‘SHARE A SOAP WITH SOMEONE’ which is part of the company’s strategic customer engagement and brand affinity initiatives aimed at fostering the brand pull connection with the Nigerian audience. According to the director of Brands & Marketing – Avila Naturalle Ltd, Mr Sylvester Iriogbe, Avila is committed to continuously inspiring happiness amongst its customers and this time, it is taking it even further by partnering with a multiple-award-winning actress and filmmaker whose natural ingenuity and brilliance in making people happy through her creative works is unparalleled. “We have followed Toyin Abraham’s creative works; we appreciate her contributions to the Nigerian society through the entertainment industry. Her inspirational attributes serve as a source of motivation to the younger generation, helping them to understand and appreciate the importance of hard work, self-belief and resilience in achieving their dreams,” he said. “We appreciate Toyin’s natural talent and uniqueness; these (uniqueness and natural) are attributes she shares in common with our products as well as corporate brands values. She possesses a distinctive talent and robust experience as a prominent creative artist and other noble qualities that we believe connect to our brand,” he added. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, Toyin expressed appreciation and excitement about the partnership with Avila Naturalle, saying Avila is a brand that she is happy to work with because Avila Naturalle products are truly natural. “Avila is a big brand; they are the number one (natural skincare manufacturer) in Africa. I realised that this is the kind of brand I want to be associated with and I like the fact that their products are natural and very affordable. That is the true Nigerian spirit”, she said.