Senator Frank Ibezim representing Imo North senatorial district yesterday implored presidential aspirants from the South East geopolitical zone to drop their ambition and support minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, as the Igbo consensus aspirant. He said among the presidential aspirants from the zone, including Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, former Imo state governor, Senator Rochas Okorocha; minister of Labour, Chris Ngige, and others who have declared interest to contest the 2023 presidential election, Nwajiuba fits the bill. In a statement he personally signed Friday in Abuja, Ibezim noted that since Nwajiuba has the competence, youthfulness, likeability and closeness to President Muhammadu Buhari, the zone it would be a great loss for the zone to throw away the golden opportunity. The federal lawmaker said it is more so when it is considered that the minister was the first aspirant from the South East to purchase nomination forms. This he said demonstrates Nwajiuba’s seriousness, capability and commitment to lead the party to victory, adding that he deserves the complete and total support of all progressive party man and woman, especially those of the South East extraction. Ibezim stated: “The purchase of form and acceptance to contest the presidential ticket of APC  by Honorable Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba (HCN) the Minister of State Education is a thoroughly remarkable development. “In this context being the first person to have secured these nomination forms to contest and from the Southeast shows seriousness, capability and commitment to lead the party to victory, he deserves the complete and total support of all progressive party men and women especially South easterners. “For long we have clamored to be given the opportunity to provide leadership of this country at the highest level. The opportunity has come and Hon Nwajiuba is that person who has the competence, youthfulness, likeability and closeness to the President and other key stakeholders of the party”. Appealing to other South East politicians nursing similar ambition and who have not purchased the form to shelve their ambition, the Senator said this is the time for unity because the 2023 presidency is not a contest Igbos can afford to “go into scattered, bruised and fighting ourselves. “Nwajiuba from every indication is the key to APC presidential ticket, let us rally around him. Let us not give those who mock the Igbos that they are never united the room to do so. With Nwajiuba already in the ring, let us rally round him. Let us not throw away this golden opportunity. This is the time to speak with one voice. I call on Igbo leaders, to rally together to enable us get to this destination,” he added.