Nigeria is still reeling from the after-shock of the raid carried out by terrorists on travellers on an Abuja to Kaduna train almost a fortnight ago. The sad tales emanating from that ugly incidence are not helped by the revelations that the attack could have been avoided. The terrorists inflicted maximum damage. They not only derailed the train by detonating explosives, they shot sporadically at the train, killing eight of the passengers on the spot, and wounding an estimated 41 persons during the operation.  Apart from the dead and injured whose fate are already known, an unknown number of travellers on that train, believed to be over 100, were kidnapped. For the wounded, the bullet marks will continue to remind them of the attack just as some of them may lose some bodily functions. Since that train service started in 2016, many public servants and business-class individuals have flocked to its use as a safer alternative mode of transportation due to the unspeakable atrocities unleased on users of the Abuja-Kaduna highway by bandit-terrorists. One of the sad tales that came out of the train tragedy is the death of one Chinelo Megafu Nwaobu, a young medical doctor who had just resigned from St Gerald’s Hospital, Kaduna, and was billed to travel broad for greener pasture later in the week of the attack. Dr Chinelo was said to have tweeted for help after the murderous terrorists shot her in the train, but ultimately, with no help arriving in time, she died. For parents, family members and friends of such a young lady, full of life and hope of a bright future, only to be cut down in the prime of her life in such a violent manner, the shock of how it all ended for her can lead to longtime psychological suffering. We Don’t Need Money, Govt Knows What We Want, Say Terrorists Who Attacked Kaduna Train In the above category are the families of the general secretary of the Trade Union Congress, Barrister Musa Lawal Ozigi; daughter of Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) organising secretary Farida Mohammed; a worker with National Boar for Technical Education Abdul Kofar-Mata, and Amin Mahmoud, a youth leader with the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), who are all mourning the loss of a loved one, among others. The abrupt demise of their loved ones in such a violent manner can be a haunting experience. For these and the remaining ones among the dead, their agony is definitive. However, for the more than 100 victims still in their kidnappers’ dungeon, their heart is still in their mouth as to the fate of their own and what kind of ordeal they must be going through in the hands these bloodthirsty outlaws. The most prominent victims are a family of six – one Abubakar Garba, his wife Maryam and four children – who are in the terrorist’s den. While the trauma of adults facing these cruel criminals is bad enough, the prospect of children witnessing such horrors first-hand can have life-long implications for their mental health. Luckily, the managing director of the Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Ali Hassan, has been released. While there are reports that N100 million ransom was paid, the official version is that the terrorists tempered justice with mercy in the spirit of Ramadan. If that were so, we urge the terrorists to extend the same consideration to their other captives.  Also, some of the captives may have underlying illnesses and need constant medication which they cannot get in their present circumstances. This is added torment for those affected. Already, there reports that the terrorists had contacted some of the families to make outrageous demands for ransom. This is added sorrow to the families who will be running from pillar to post to raise the demanded figures in order to free their loves ones. For those who cannot raise the money, they have no option but to hope for the best and expect the worst. Terrorists have been known to murder their victims if they do not get what they want, and this knowledge can only add to the anxiety that they and their loved ones are facing. Following a protest by relatives of the captives against government’s seeming inaction towards their plight, the minister of transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, gave assurance that government was doing everything possible to rescue the kidnapped victims. As a newspaper we urge the government to match this pledge with the required action to relieve both the victims and their loved ones of this terrible ordeal. It is our considered opinion that all the victims of this train attack and other such violence should be reached with professional care by the health authorities concerned to help them cope well with the traumatic experience.