A non-governmental organisation, United for Better Nigeria Initiative (UBNi), has urged the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) and other northern elders to endorse a credible presidential aspirant from the South-East geo-political as a consensus presidential candidate in the spirit of inclusiveness and representational justice. Apparently reacting to the outcome of the consensus arrangement by some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) aspirants from the North, UBNi in a statement noted that the elders should consider the rich credentials of a former secretary to the government of the federation, Anyim Pius Anyim, who was elected as president of the Senate at the age of 39 and has been a loyal member of the PDP at all times. National coordinator of UBNi, Hon. (Mrs) Nkoli Mkparu, in the statement, also urged the northern elders to join the pan-Yoruba sociocultural group, Afenifere, Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) and the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) in the search for a president of South-East extraction. Mkparu cautioned that having another president from northern region would further marginalise Nigerians of South-East extraction, adding that the South-East had at different times supported a northern candidate to assume the nation’s number one position. Recall that the controversial consensus arrangement piloted by chairman of the NEF, Prof. Ango Abdulahi, suggested the immediate-past president of the Senate, Abubarkar Bukola Saraki and Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, as the possible consensus candidates for the north. But UBNi faulted the arrangement, noting that the northern elders should look beyond their region for a good presidential candidate in 2023, noting that the unity and harmonious co-existence of interest groups within the Nigeria should be considered in the overall interest of the country. “The NEF and other northern elders should in the spirit of inclusiveness engage aspirants from the South East zone and declare support for anyone who meets their criteria. Nobody can become president by being popular only in his geo-political zone, therefore leaders and opinion moulders from other geo-political zones should concede the 2023 slot to the north and announce their preferred candidate(s). “Anyim has remained a loyal member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from inception. His commitment through good and bad times has seen him become a member of the Party’s Board of Trustees (BOT), National Caucus and the National Executive Committee (NEC). He has also served as a member of the PDP’s Reconciliation Committee and had once declared his interest to become the Chairman of the Party. He ran a principled campaign and enjoyed the support and endorsements of party members across the country, however a consensus agreement reached to zone the chairmanship to another geopolitical zone (other than his), prevented him from clinching the party’s top job,” Mkparu stated.