There’s so much to expect from the real estate value-chain. Leasehold business is a subsector in the real estate sector that involves the contractual property arrangement between the lesse and lessor for the usage of buildings, properties, common assets, projects, land space and other assets for commercial and investment purposes such that it favourably guarantees income for both parties involved. Buying, leasing or renting all have their own advantages. If you buy to live in your property, that property can be assumed as a liability. However, if you buy to rent, it becomes an asset that you can use as collateral to get funds to buy more properties. The lease contract stipulates the terms and agreement between the lessee (tenant) and the lessor(property owner or landlord). Both parties go into an agreement that stipulates landlord responsibilities, security deposit, tenant responsibility, breach of contract clauses, among others Leasehold Improvement After a lease agreement has been finalised, the lessee, or tenants begin to build out the space for it’s purposes to the extent allowed by the contract. Work on walls, ceilings, floor space and plumbing fixtures that represent part of the leasehold improvement. Depending on the contract, leasehold improvement might be paid for by the tenant, the landlord or a combination of both. Leasing Benefits In certain markets, more properties are available for leasing than purchase. So, leasing provides businesses with more options to occupy spaces in location where they couldn’t afford to buy properties of their own. Leasing provides greater flexibility to users who may need to go into contractual housing agreement to expand to relocate and expand their businesses in the future. Other benefits of leasing includes; source of finance to asset owners, tax benefits, stability of cost, debt protection and additional income for owners. Challenges & Risks The risk clarification of leasing a company involves external risk factors which includes legal, political, social and environmental risk and client insolvency risk. The environmental and social risks associated with leasing activities are generally minimal for most transactions but will be more significant if the fixed asset involves the use of heavy equipment and as a function of the industry sector. Recommendations & Suggestions Speaking on the issue, REDAN auditor and chief executive officer, Roccio Carrillo Company, Mr. Emmanuel Oyelowo hinted that, leasing provides value for money, adding that, immovable assets generates appreciative incomes to the lessor with less risk involved. He asserted that leasing properties are appreciating assets with high value that guarantees the lessee to take temporary possession of the property for the leasing period, although, the person takes full possession as the caretaker for the main time for business purpose. He advised leasing parties to provide legal alternatives before signing contractual agreements to take temporary possessions of the property, with terms and conditions while he maintained that if this is not properly done, it may generate problems for both parties.