The demand for polythene, popularly called ‘nylon’ in Nigeria is expanding on a daily basis, says Owoyaya Inhdowu, the founder of a polythene factory in Lagos State, as the demand outweighs the supply. Polythene bags are common in several households, due to the fact that it is commonly used to package all kinds of goods and it is very affordable. It is a part of day to day life necessity, hence the reason there is a huge demand on the production these bags, Idowu says, adding that, “Nylon is used both by individuals, shops (both retailers and whole sales) companies (both goods and foods manufacturing companies).” On the basis of individuals, Idowu disclosed that polythene bags has a wide range of uses domestically, e.g. storage, shopping and packaging. Where companies are concerned, nylon is in constant demand in large quantities, used for wrapping and packaging of products. “If you are looking for the right business to invest in, then I would recommend you look into nylon production, as it is the right business that pays. Aside producing the nylon yourself, you can also sell them. It is not a business that you make a loss, because either way, you will definitely sell your products,” Idowu says. Starting the Polythene Business The first thing to do is to learn the process, Idowu said, adding that, at his factory, they train Nigerians who are ready to learn the business. “The process involves how to operate the machine, where to get the raw materials and how to market your products etc,” he explains. After learning the process, Idowu says, “You need to have a business plan. you need an expert business plan to determine the kind of investment, strategy and operational requirement of the business. In the case of nylon production, the business plan would include the production of polythene shopping bags and pure water sachets with other multipurpose products. “The next thing is to raise capital to buy the machine. You can either get the manual for N100,000 or the automated for like N6 million. After that, you purchase your raw materials like polythene, polyethylene, ecorene, Lupene, and so on; rent a shop and since you are starting small, you just need one or two staff to assist you. “After that, you can start the production properly, it is not difficult at all, especially when you have passion for the job. “Next, is to market your product. Your market is very large. You can market to pure water factory, sell to retailers or wholesalers. You can even market your products to companies.” Profitability “If you can have four companies you supply to regularly, you can make up to N200,000 profit monthly,” Idowu says, adding that, “the more you expand your customer base, the more money you make.”