The Ohanaeze N’digbo Worldwide has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to apply nationalistic and patriotic approach to end the judicial battle between Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB) and the federal government. Speaking with newsmen in Owerri, IPOB official, Comrade Igboayaka O. Igboayaka, likened  Kanu’s court trial to “a judicial and academic bravado that will continue to divide Nigeria among tribes.” He said; “Nigeria today is evidently characterised by socio-cultural and  political injury, ethnic jingoism and regional marginalisation. And the signal of insecurity in northern Nigeria and agitation in southern Nigeria should be seen as a call for meditation and reflection by every concern Nigerian”. According to Igboayaka, the Buhari-led government  has the capacity to trigger resounding happiness and jubilation among Nigerians through the process of a right choice. He implored the president to play   a fatherly role by being patriotic in tackling the protracted issue as regards Kanu, pointing out that such would in no doubt, resuscitate the visibly dying consciousness of new generation of the Igbo extraction. “The government of President Muhammadu Buhari can make a choice that will trigger jubilation in the country by acting Fatherly and patriotic in the case of Nnamdi Kanu by championing the release of Nnamdi Kanu as his fatherly responsibility which will reawaken the consciousness of new generation of Igbo extraction that Nigeria can survive in a round table of dialogue instead in the theater of war,” he said. Comrade Igboayaka said sincerity, justice and fairness were the basic factors required for a reinvigorated and successful Nigeria. “Therefore, Buhari should demonstrate sincerity in pursuing Nigerian unity by knowing that releasing Nnamdi Kanu will bring news of a rebirth of Nigeria. The quest for fairness and justice of the Igbo new generation in Nigeria political project should be given a holistic approach which will metamorphose into reintegration of the separatist groups by applying fairness and justice in all that led to the call for secession in Nigeria,” Igboayaka stated. “Our appeal to President Buhari is to earnestly consider the political solution in the case of Nnamdi Kanu as presented by Prof. Amb. George Obiozor and other eminent Nigerians as a catalyst that will stimulate national peace and unity,” he said. Comrade Igboayaka charged all pro-Biafran groups on what he termed a ballot revolution in Igbo land in the 2023 general election, which he noted would retire the “gangs of political criminals in Igbo land”. He lamented that the hike in agitation by IPOB was borne out of the extant political negligence of Igbo politicians, “the primitive accumulation of public wealth by Igbo governors, senators, House of  Representatives members, House of Assembly, commissioners, and ministers. “These were factors that led to underdevelopment, poverty, death, insecurity and unemployment in Igbo land”, he said.