A northern youth platform, National Youth Inclusive in Governance Organisation (NYIGO) has urged the political class to engage youths as agents of progress in the country, and not tools of violence and destruction, political corruption and misdemeanor. The group added that the elite should endeavor to mentor youths on political education and employment opportunities which will ultimately serve as a succession plan for them to take over the affairs of governance when the time comes. Convener of the group, Mr Yusuf Sheriff Banki, during a press conference yesterday in Bauchi, said with over 60 percent of the country’s voting population dominated by young eligible voters, it is critical to give them their rightful place in the political space. Banki, who disclosed that they have  began an mobilisation across the length and breadth of the country against youth exploitation ahead of 2023 general elections, expressed delight that the exercise will clear a road map for another journey in transition to democracy. Banki regretted that, so far, the youth have been neglected and forced to surrender to their fates, resulting in politicians using them as tools of violence and destruction, political corruption and misdemeanor. According to him, youths access and opportunity to participate in political processes must be provided as a matter of rights and not a privilege as enshrined under section 14 (2) in the 1999 constitution as amended, and as reiterated in National Youth Policy (2009), African Youth Charter and the African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Good Governance. Banki added that increased youth political participation in governance and decision-making is a clear indicator of a country’s democratic development. “Since democracy thrives on the ability of citizens to enforce their rights by participating in decision making, young people must be given the opportunity to contribute to the development of their communities through political participation that grants them access to structures of governance where decisions are taken.” He said the exclusion of youths from political participation and decision making is underscored by trivial responsibilities apportioned to youth such as posting of posters, distribution of campaign materials, singing and dancing during campaigns and party conventions, mobilization of thugs and crowds. These, the Sherif said, can neither be referred to as inclusion nor qualitative participation since they do not translate into access to the structures of decision making. He cited examples with Late Abubakar Tafawa Balewa who was elected into the Northern House of Assembly at the tender age of 34 and later into the legislative assembly at the age of 37, and Usman Shehu Aliyu Shagari was 21 years old when he began his political life. Banki recalled that Shagari at 23 merged his political organisation, The Youth Social Circle with other political organizations to create the Northern People’s Congress (NPC), while Dr. Yusuf Maitama Sule on his part was made a minister in his twenties. According to him, most of the youths in the political space, are used as thugs by politicians who seek selfish political gains through the perpetuation of violence and pointing out that, for an all-encompassing and participatory democracy to thrive in Nigeria, young people must play important and active roles in determining the political future of their country by engaging political actors with demands for inclusion and equal access to political participation.