The immediate-past Governor of Bayelsa State and Senator representing Bayelsa West, Chief Henry Seriake Dickson, has warned mischief makers against instigating needless divisions in the state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Senator Dickson, who warned politicians against causing disaffection among the leadership of the party over issues not unconnected with the 2023 general elections, asking them to desist forthwith. The lawmaker, who spoke in a statement signed by his media adviser, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, enjoined party members to rather celebrate the mercy and grace of God which blessed the party’s joint effort to retrieve its stolen mandate, in an effort he led resulting in the emergence of the current administration. He said, “My attention has been drawn by my media aides to a scurrilous, anonymous article making the rounds whose objective is clearly aimed at sowing a seed of discord in Bayelsa PDP “I know that in a politicking period as this, a lot of grievances and disappointments will find expression, faceless articles or statements which if not carefully managed can create crisis and a negative atmosphere.” Dickson said he has always made it known to political-office seekers and indeed the PDP family that he doesn’t have any preferred candidate outside of those to be endorsed and supported by the governor and the stakeholders. He said, “As I have always maintained, in a political period all ambitions are legitimate. People should pray, consult and work hard. “In my current position, I do not have any special candidate for the forthcoming elections. As a father to all, in the PDP, candidates I will support are only those endorsed by the governor and the stakeholders across the state. “I believe the governor, as the leader of the party, leading the consultations with stakeholders and leaders, managing the aspirations of members will look into all emergent issues and resolve them accordingly in the interest of the party. “I have decided to limit my role to the provision of necessary advice and guidance to the Governor and stakeholders whenever that is required and no amount of blackmail will change that. “The governor and I are in regular consultations on important issues.” He, therefore, congratulated Governor Douye Diri for the commissioning of the new Yenagoa City Bridge completed by his administration and the road which was also initiated by the Restoration Government but completed by the Diri administration in the spirit of continuity. “By this development, the New Yenagoa City project, another big dream of the my government has come alive and all allottees can now plan to make their input to the building of a truly befitting modern State capital of our dream,” he noted. He also commended the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, who he described as his friend and brother for finding the time to visit Bayelsa to Commission some important projects. He said that his major concern was to rally behind Governor Diri and the stakeholders to sustain the PDP dominance of political power in Bayelsa. “I am looking forward to joining the Governor and the stakeholders to campaign for the victory of our candidates in the next election,” he added.