The All Progressives Congress (APC) has described as fake news in some quarters, report that it has suspended process of its national convention till June this year. The party’s Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) pointed out that the dates for party activities such as meetings, primaries, congresses, national conventions are communicated through well-known official channels and not through “sources”. National secretary secretary of the party, John James Akpanudoedehe, noted in a statement he issued yesterday that under the leadership of Governor Mai Mala Buni, APC’s immidiate task is to address and resolve grievances within the party, litigations, fallouts of recently-conducted congresses and generally reposition the party ahead of the national convention. Akpanudoedehe said, “The party notes and appreciates the continued support of well-meaning members and leaders as the APC Caretaker Committee undertakes the immediate task of addressing contestations within the Party, litigations, fallouts of recently-conducted Congresses and generally reposition the Party ahead of the National Convention. “The general public is advised to completely disregard fake news on the reported suspension of the planned National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) till June, as reported by some media outlets. “The faceless authors and sponsors of fake news on APC activities, in this case the planned National Convention are simply bent on causing confusion and formenting crisis through misinformation. We should not enable them. “As a focus-driven, process-oriented political party, the APC Caretaker Committee under the leadership of Governor Mai Mala Buni will not be distracted by self-serving antics of these sponsors of fake news. “The APC Caretaker Committee is already embarking on nationwide consultations with Party stakeholders to prepare the ground for a rancour-free National Convention. To this end, the sub-committee on budgeting and other substructures will be set up in due course.”