Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, on Wednesday, has revealed that 387 lives were lost to armed attacks among Atyap, Fulani, Chawai, Irigwe and Hausa communities in Kauru and Zangon Kataf local government areas of the State in the law two years. The governor also reiterated his call to communities in Kauru and Zangon Kataf local government areas to maintain recourse to the law and avoid generalisations which keep complicating security situation in the two LGAs. The governor, who was represented by Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, at an emergency security meeting involving traditional rulers, religious and community leaders from the areas at the palace of Agwatyap, A̠tak Njei, in Zangon Kataf local government area, stated said: “We are here on behalf of the Governor following the renewed killings in Kauru and Zangon Kataf local government areas. It is a big setback but we will not relent. “We are reiterating our appeal for recourse to the law and avoidance of generalizations. These killings and counter killings are unjustifiable. “For instance in 2020, 114 citizens were killed in Zangon Kataf and 28 in Kauru, and in 2021, 186 were killed in Zangon Kataf and 59 in Kauru and if you put the figures, we lost 387 people in these two councils. In 2021, 100 citizens incurred gun shot injuries in the two councils, 77 in Zangon Kataf and 23 in Kauru. “This is aside, houses and settlements burnt, farms destroyed, cattle killed and collapse of the rural economy affecting all the communities. “We must rise to the occasion and put a stop to all these challenges, arising from the behavior of a few elements on all sides. Let us reason together and avert this needless bloodshed.” The member of House of Representatives representing Zangon Kataf/Jaba federal constituency, Amos Gwamna Magaji, in his remarks supported the appeal for recourse to the law and collective campaign for peace in the locations. In their separate remarks, the Agwatyap, Sir Dominic Gambo Yahaya, and Res-Tsam (Chief of Chawai), Alhaji Yahaya Mohammed, corroborated calls for peace and pledge their commitment to support security forces in their moves for sustainable peace and development. The chairman of Zangon Kataf local government, Hon. Francis Sani, and his Kauru local government counterpart, Hon. Bashir Dawaki, commended Governor El-Rufai for dispatching a high-powered delegation to the areas following the renewed killings and counter killings. The Commander, Sector 7 of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Col. Tony Opurum, expressed concern over the incessant killings and lawlessness being experienced. Opurum said the military will continue to work hard in containing threats to peace in his area of responsibility. On his part, Area Commander, Kafanchan Police Area Command, ACP Danladi Ibrahim, said the police will continue to be neutral and prosecute anyone found guilty. The meeting ended with all sides agreeing to deepen the campaign for peace and continue the engagements in all communities. The participants unanimously appealed to the Kaduna State Government to resolve the land tussle lingering in Zangon Kataf since the 1992 crisis. The Kaduna State Government thanked Center for Democracy and Development (CDD) for accepting to organise peace and security engagements in the two local government areas starting from February 2021.