The Federal Ministry of Power has successfully facilitated the full payment of Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) workers outstanding salaries and allowances and remittance of 20 months’ pension deductions. Minister of Power, Engineer Abubakar Aliyu, in a statement yesterday, said that the payment of the entitlements was at his behest. This, he noted, was in fulfilment of his promise to the workers after the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). “The intervention of the ministry facilitated the payment of the entitlements of AEDC staff, as agreed in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) and other stakeholders in December last year. “The entitlements settled include, unpaid allowances, salaries, union deductions and unremitted 20 months pensions contributions deducted from workers’ salaries” the statement, noted. To this end, the Minister reaffirmed his commitment to work with all stakeholders to ensure steady electricity supply and stability in the electricity industry. Confirming the payments, NUEE FCT Chair, Comrade  Godfrey Aba, told LEADERSHIP all the outstanding financial obligations to the staff has been settled. He said the management had  set aside N5 billion to ensure that all obligations as per their agreements were met. He however called on management to look into other grievances such undue promotions of some workers to the exclusion of members of the union. Recall that on December 6, 2021, workers of AEDC protested the non-payment of their 18 months salaries, allowances and entitlements, a development that threw the franchise states into darkness. The franchise states include, the federal capital territory (FCT), Kogi, Nasarawa and Kaduna states. However, the Federal Ministry of Power took the initiative that ended the strike by engaging the organised labour. The strike came at the time changes in shareholding in AEDC and the appointment of an interim management for AEDC took effect. In the MoU signed by the Minister of State for Power, Goddy Jeddy Agba; chairman of Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Sanusi Garba; General Secretary, National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE), Joe Ajaero and chairman, NUEE FCT, Godfrey Aba, it was agreed that the federal government would ensure that the grievances of the workers were addressed within 21 days.