Doubly vaccinated passengers will no longer have to take pre-departure COVID-19 tests in the United Kingdom from 04:00 GMT on Friday, the government has said. They will also not be required to self-isolate while awaiting test results after arriving in England. If they arrive after 04:00 GMT on Sunday, people without symptoms will not need a PCR test if a lateral flow test is positive on day two. The test changes come after travel firms called for them to be removed. After the emergence of the Omicron variant, the government said all travellers over the age of 12 must show proof of a negative test lateral flow or PCR test taken within two days of setting off for the UK. Fully vaccinated people are also currently required to pay for a PCR test within 48 hours of arrival, while those who aren’t must take pre-booked PCR tests on both day two and day eight after arriving, and self-isolate for 10 days. Travellers currently must pay for private tests rather than using free NHS tests. The prime minister said the pre-departure test “discourages many from travelling for fear of being trapped overseas and incurring significant extra expense”. The announcement comes after airlines said passenger testing was making no real impact, with data last week suggesting one in 25 people in England had the virus. They also said compulsory testing had held back the sector’s recovery. Mr Johnson met his cabinet earlier and alongside changes to travel tests, the government has said it will ease COVID-19 testing rules for people without symptoms, who will no longer need to confirm a positive lateral flow test with a PCR. That rule change will come into force on 11 January and apply to England only for now. On Tuesday, Boris Johnson said he hoped the country could “ride out” the current wave, although he acknowledged parts of the NHS would feel temporarily overwhelmed. Currently, all travellers to the UK aged 12 and over have to show proof of a negative test, which can be a PCR or a lateral flow test, and must be taken up to two days before departure for the UK. They then have to take another test – which this time must be a PCR test – within the first two days after their arrival in the UK. But at the time that rule was brought in a month ago, the number of new cases reported in the UK each day was running between 40,000 and 50,000 – and was only rising relatively slowly because it was almost entirely made up of the Delta variant of COVID-19. But UK cases have now risen sharply and Omicron is the dominant variant – so airlines can argue that there is no longer any hope of relying on testing to “keep out Omicron”.