Saving money is one of the essential aspects of building wealth and having a secure financial future. Putting aside a sum of money in a systematic manner can help ones steer out of many hurdles and obstacles in life. It can support ones in hour of need and ensure that the family has something to fall back on in case of an unfortunate event. There are many reasons to save and several ways to save with ease in the country. Savings is crucial for everyone, regardless of their earnings, spending and life stage. Here are some reasons why we need to start saving. It offers peace of mind; knowing that we have a certain amount accumulated for times of our need, gives us the peace of mind. We can lead a stress-free life with the knowledge that we will not have to struggle if things take an unexpected route It gives us a better future; our savings can be the answer to a number of our goals. We can buy a house, accumulate funds for our retirement, or purchase a vehicle. We can secure our future, indulge in the best of things that life has to offer and live a very fulfilling life It provides for our children’s education; with a considerable amount of savings, we can fuel our children’s dreams and pay for the best schools and colleges across the world We can plan our short-term goals; savings are not just aimed at the long term. We can also benefit from savings in the short term. A lot of people save for a few months and then travel. Savings give our family security in case of an unfortunate event; by saving in a disciplined manner, we can make sure that our family is well-provided for. In unfortunate times, our savings can act as a cushion for your loved ones and help them overcome any financial difficulty If ones are new to savings or find it difficult to stick to their objective of saving, they can try to limit their credit card usage; keep a track of their expenses, if you find it difficult to save regularly, try to record and keep a track of your monthly expenditure. This will offer you a clear picture of where you spend. You can then identify the things that are not important and aim at saving more by avoiding those purchases Budget can be created for savings, as this help to devise a budget for each month. You can create a plan at the beginning of the month to target savings and set limits for spending. This lets you focus on what is important, reduces the chances of over-spending, and lets you save as planned Also, invest in long term financial tools, when you save, it is also important to see your savings grow with time. Investing your money in a long-term investment plan can have many additional benefits.