The National Engineering and Technical Company (NETCO), a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Ltd., has reiterated its commitment to empowering youths in its host community with vocational skills to enable them contribute to national development. Managing Director of NETCO, Mr. Johnson Awoyomi, made the pledge on Friday at the graduation ceremony of 13 youths from Iru community, Iru-Victoria Island Local Council Development Area of Lagos State. The ‘Batch B Netcropreneur’ beneficiaries were trained for three months at the Oluponna Fish Farming and Resource Foundation (OFFER) Centre, Iwo, in Osun State. The graduands were trained on Agribusiness (crop and livestock farming), Information Communication Technology (ICT) as well as Catering and Craft. Awoyomi, represented by Mr Ahmad Kigo, Executive Director, Services, NETCO, said the training was one of the many Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) services being embarked upon by the company. He said “As you all know, we can solve a lot of problems if we adopt skills acquisition method. “We can curb unemployment, create wealth and tackle insecurity which is the present focus of the Federal Government. “If our youths are empowered, there will be less security challenges. So, we are doing this not only for Iru community but for the benefit of the entire nation.” Awoyomi added that, the skills impacted on the graduands, ICT, agriculture and event management were in high demand in this era and would be of great benefit to them. According to him, government alone cannot do everything, hence there is need for citizens to play their own parts in nation building. He, therefore, charged the graduands to take advantage of the opportunity to develop themselves and their community. Also, Mr Garba Deen Muhammad, Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, NNPC, said NNPC and its subsidiaries would continue to promote CSR programmes that touch the lives of millions of Nigerians. Muhammad, represented by Mrs Doris Ohia, Manager, Community Impact Investment, NNPC, thanked the OFFER Centre for the quality of vocational training being given to the graduands. The Rector of the institute, Rev. Fr. Bernard Azeez, said the graduands were taken through rigorous training on business development that would enable them successfully run small and medium scale enterprises. Azeez said they have become professionals in their respective fields and should imbibe the knowledge learnt from the training by being worthy ambassadors of OFFER Centre. On his part, the Catholic Archbishop of Ibadan Archdiocese, Most. Rev. Gabriel Abegunrin, represented by Rev. Fr. Felix Akinyode, admonished the beneficiaries to utilise the opportunity in order to give back to the society. Similarly, the Oniru of Iruland, Oba Gbolahan Lawal, represented by Chief Bashir Afolami, lauded the cordial relationship between NETCO and the community. He said the palace would continue to emphasise on building the capacity of the youths through collaboration with organisations and companies operating within the area. Responding on behalf of the graduands, Mr Sodiq Malik, thanked NETCO and OFFER Centre for the opportunity given to them, promising that they would use it for good of the nation.