Arising from Wednesday’s reconciliation meeting at the residence of Senator Abdullahi Adamu in Abuja, the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State is set to lead the Gombe State governor, Inuwa Yahaya and top shots of the party to meet with Senator Danjuma Goje over the reorganisation of the party structure in Gombe State this week (next week). This was part of the resolutions reached at the Abuja meeting where Governor Buni and other leaders of the party reconciled with Governor Yahaya and Senator Goje. Yahaya and Goje have been at daggers-drawn over the control of party structure in the state. The crisis trailing the congresses of the ruling party in Gombe State was ballooned following the attack on Senator Goje’s convoy in Gombe last year. To reconcile the two politicians, Buni last Wednesday led top shots of the party to the residence of Senator Abdullahi Adamu in Abuja, where Governor Yahaya and Senator Goje were reconciled. At the meeting attended by a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, senators and former governors of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima and Sullivan Chime of Enugu State, among others, it was resolved that the peace pact should be implemented in two folds. A source at the meeting told journalists that Governor Yahaya and Senator Goje were urged to sheath their swords and allow peace to reign. “The party leaders appealed to both Governor Yahaya and Senator Goje to allow peace to reign in line with Islamic teachings,” he said, pleading not to be named. He said the second leg of the peace pact was that the congress of the party conducted in Gombe State, where allies of Goje were edged out, should be realigned to accommodate the supporters of the former governor. “The governor and the senator agreed to this. This was the second phase of the outcome of the peace meeting,” he added. Another source at the meeting said it was resolved that Governor Buni should lead Gombe governor, his Borno State counterparts, Babagana Zulum, his predecessor, Kashim Shettima to meet with Senator Goje at his Abuja residence this week. “It is expected that the reorganisation of the party structure in Gombe would be done during the meeting at Goje’s residence in Abuja,” the source, a lawmaker said.