Recall that NDLEA spokesman, Femi Babafemi, in an earlier report by LEADERSHIP had confirmed the arrest of Zinoleesky, Mohbad and four others during a raid while banned substances namely Molly and Cannabis were found with them. However, reacting to the arrest of the up-coming musicians, Naira Marley took to his Twitter page and demanded that the NDLEA release the musicians, who operate under his record label. He wrote; “What is happening to my brothers is disgusting. The injustice is unfair and this is beginning to look like a pattern. First me now my artists. Free Zinoleesky, free Shubomi, free Micee and Dosky. “NDLEA have released Mohbad after physically assaulting him, Zinoleesky is still in custody.” Speaking further Naira Marley said, “The boys are under a lot of stress after being ambushed in the middle of the night with no warrant. I’m urgently returning to Lagos now now now.” Meanwhile, Mohbad whose real name is Ilerioluwa Oladimeji, has raised the alarm over alleged attempts on his life by suspected members of the Marlian group. Mohbad is the only artiste to have been released by the NDLEA among the six arrested. The embattled singer, who seemed to have opened a can of worms regarding the Marlian group, said Naira Marley and the crew members should be held responsible if anything happens to him. In an Instagram video, the singer who spoke in Yoruba and English languages, said NDLEA arrested him with Zinoleesky and others but he was released. He disclosed that members of the Marlian music tried to harm him thereafter. “I’m just trying to ask like, am I a bad boy? I don’t really mean it from my mind. So I don’t know these people have been hating on me. “They have been doing bad things on me, I went mad because of this issue, now they are trying to kill me. Everybody in the whole world please help me, if I die woh na Marlian music and Naira Marley kill me. “Abeg if I die like this, God, please help me. Look at all these people sha my God will never fuck me up, never. I’m in Idado estate,” he said. In another video, Mohbad in a vehicle, said: “I’m going to the hospital right now, Oh my God. I’m fucked up by many people, I don’t trust anybody.”