National chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Senator Iyorchia Ayu has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill so that the nation can have elections which are impossible to rig. He also said All Progressives Congress (APC) is scared of getting the electoral act amendment bill signed into law because the party is afraid of losing the 2023 general elections. Ayu spoke in Jos, during the flag off of his party’s “mega campaign rally for Jos North/Bassa federal constituency and Pankshin South State constituency bye-election,” set for this weekend. The PDP national chairman at the event received a former state chairman of APC, Chief Letep Dabang, and others who decamped to PDP. Presenting the party flag to the bye-election candidates as well as to the decampees, Ayu charged them to be united and ensure victory for the party on Saturday. His words, “I am proud of Plateau as the home of PDP. This is the only serious party in the country, all others are contraptions. Under PDP, we saw development and unity but now, there is no development. I want to see the unity of PDP leaders on the Plateau because this is home. If they are not united, if I have a problem, where will I go? “I want everyone to work together and bring back all our members who were angry and left PDP. Plateau is the home of PDP, we must work together to return to power and save the country. I don’t want Plateau to be in opposition when we win the election at the federal. You must do the right thing, get your PVC, and vote. Our votes will count, that is why the APC doesn’t want electoral reforms. President Buhari must sign the electoral act immediately, that will make elections impossible to rig.” Speaking on behalf of the decampees, Dabang, recalled how he ran errands for the late PDP chairman, Chief Solomon Lar, Professor Dakum Shown, Senators Ayu, and Jang, among others. He apologised to Plateau people for playing an active role in making them accept APC in the state, saying “I regret the confusion that we brought.” Meanwhile, goodwill messages were received from dignitaries including the party’s chairman, Board Of Trustees (BoT), Senator Walid Jibrin; national youth leader, Mohammed Suleiman; Amb. Fidelis Tapgun: Senator Jonah Jang; Senator Jeremiah Useni; PDP vice chairman, North Central; Theophilus Dakashan among others. 