LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that notwithstanding the   switch , viewers will be in for the same heady cocktail they have come to expect on the Glo sponsored reality tv show; mesmerising dances moves, dance floor drama and the joys and pains of victory and loss respectively. Whike the focus in Episode 4 is on centred on break dancing girls, aalso known as BGirls ,  they  are expected to bring fire to the dance floor. So far , from Abuja all the way to Lagos , the ladies have made it clear that when it comes to break dancing, men do not have exclusive preserve. Interestingly, show host, Do2Tun shares the same sentiments as he quips in the intro: “If you ever doubted the talent of the BGirls, after this episode you will be a believer.” A statement from GLo spokesman, Arinze A. calls on viewers to Log onto GloTv, Globacoms streaming app at 8 p.m. on today  to find out what happens when BGirl Angel, steps on the dance floor to do battle with BGirl Cindy, in the Lagos qualifiers. Fans are advised to log in to witness the palpable relief as BGirl vibe is told she doesn’t have to do a final battle against BGirl Cruxy in order to make it to the Lagos finals. “Then listen to her express her appreciation to Glo for providing her a platform to launch her career. Whether I win or not, taking part in Glo Battle of the Year is already a big step.” The statement further assures thag aside from the BGirls, viewers will be treated to head turning popping moves by poppers from the six venues as they battle to make their way to Lagos. The statement reads in part, “As with all competitions, there will be winners and losers but the judges’ decisions are not final. You, the viewer, have the power to alter those decisions. All you have to do is visit www.globotynigeria.com to vote for your favourite contestant who didn’t make it past the regional qualifications. “And for those viewers who can bust a move, Glo is spreading the cheer. Post your dance video on social media – twitter, instagram, tiktok and facebook- add the hashtag #GloBattleOfTheYear and tag a glo social media handle and you and your fellow dancers could win N200,000 weekly. So, download GloTv, keep watching, keep dancing and start winning. 