Yangming stated this in the build up to the upcoming fifth edition of the Nigeria International Energy Summit (NIES) which will hold from February 27 to March 3, 2022 convened by the Federal Government of Nigeria and hosted by the NNPC with the theme ‘Revitalising the Industry: Future fuels and Energy Transition’. The company will be discussing on how to overcome the crisis and challenges of data to barrel in the oil & gas industry, with policy-makers and industry leaders as well as Huawei’s latest plans for the oil and gas industry in Africa. He said camp management is key to the process of oil and gas production and their mis-use can easily lead to accidents, production faults or a breakdown of supply. According to Yangming, the combustible and explosive nature of oil and gas means that these are inevitably high-risk areas. “Mis-use of oil and gas camp equipment can easily lead to accidents, production faults or a breakdown of supply. Not only does this bring immediate danger, it can also result in economic losses to large enterprises as well as damage to the surrounding environment. “While routine inspection can mitigate some risk it cannot pinpoint every potential danger. And with legacy equipment in use, possible safety issues cannot be predicted in advance. When combined, all of these factors can pose potential safety risks to the operation of oil and gas camps,” he pointed out. Speaking further, he said,: “the answer lies in digital transformation. This can help to boost safety at oil and gas fields, while also reducing costs and improving efficiency. The use of reliable production networks and data ensure that the operations are secure, while technologies such as voice and video interaction between the site and the dispatching centre makes daily processes more efficient. A digital approach also enables resources to be used more efficiently.” He noted that, “we are now entering a new era where digital transformation is already driving the evolution of smarter and safer oil and gas camp management. Huawei is committed to shaping the digital evolution of the oil and gas industry.” Huawei, he said, has invested a total of $4 billion researching 5G technology since 2009, submitting 26,600 standards contributions to the 3GPP. Currently, he said: “we have more than 10,000 people working on 5G networks. We already work with 85 per cent of the world’s top 20 oil and gas companies across 45 countries and regions with our long list of valued partners including ADNOC, Saudi Aramco, and Total.”