Ahead of the 2023 general election, the youth and women wings of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), have endorsed a former governor of Zamfara State, Senator Ahmed Sani Yerima, for the office of president, stating that he is the best choice for Nigeria come 2023. The President of Youth Wing of CAN and the national director, Christian Strategies, Simon Doliy, made this known during Yarima’s meeting and consultation with the Women Wing of CAN (WOWICAN) in Abuja. Donliy said: “Yarima knows the importance of women and youths, that is why he started the consultation with the women group and our youth group. “He’s a Muslim and now he has started with the Christians for the 19 northern states and Abuja. So, the essence is for them to know him, how to know his vision as an aspirant for the president of Nigeria come 2023. “Everyone has their own aspirations. I feel that he is the best for the nation this time around because of his long-time experience during his stints as governor and as a Senator, he has all the experiences.” For her part, the chairperson of the Women Wing of Christian Association of Nigeria, Mrs Elizabeth Ajegena, stated that the former Zamfara State governor has a positive track record and if given the chance to lead the country as president, he would ensure that peace prevails in Nigeria. She said: “We’re here today to the glory of God, for our son Ahmad Sani Yarima, that had been the Governor of Zamfara State. For this, we have had testimony of goodwill about him. “He is a man of peace, a man of integrity, he’s a man that accommodates, a man that tolerates. Because of these, he motivated us to come and share with him since he has come out that he wants to become the next president of Nigeria. “We pray that as he did it in Zamfara State, may the will of God be done and he will continue with that.” Meanwhile, the WOWICAN Deaconess, Mrs. Victoria Bola Ihesiulor, expressed confidence in the person of Senator Yarima, noting that by this consultation, he has shown that he was ready to work with everyone and he belongs to the class of people whom religious or sectional divide do not influence his decision. “Yarima is a man of peace, tranquility and he is someone who believes in the oneness of Nigeria, you can see from the attendance today, women of the Christian background from all the northern states are consulting with him in order to have a proper decision on who to vote for come 2023,” she said. Prayers were said for the country and also in his response, Senator Ahmad Sani Yarima expressed satisfaction and assured the groups of his capacity to unite and bring peace to the country. “If I become the president of this country, I will ensure we work with you to ensure unity and progress of this country, you will find in me a good leader who will be fair and just to everyone in this country,” Yarima stated.