The biography of the immediate-past Chief Registrar of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, Hajiya Hadizatu Uwani Mustapha, has been slated for public presentation on Saturday, February 5, 2022 at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. The book, titled ‘Hadizatu U. Mustapha: From Head Girl to Supreme Court’, was written by Dotun Adekanmbi, an accomplished media relations practitioner and former Editor of Business Times, with Sa’adatu Lawal-Ahmed, an upcoming author and lawyer with the Supreme Court of Nigeria. Governor of Borno State, Prof Babagana Umara Zulum is the Chief Host at the event, while the former Governor of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima, will be the Chief Presenter of the book. The book, ‘Hadizatu U. Mustapha: From Head Girl to Supreme Court’, published by Havilah Group tells the story of the career of Hajiya Mustapha who retired in August 2021 as the second female to hold the distinguished position of Chief Registrar of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. “I agreed to the proposal to tell my story because it helps to illustrate my firm belief that the girl-child in Nigeria can achieve her best, if given the kind of unwavering support that I got from my own parents,” Hajiya Mustapha said, adding, “The book will help to fully clarify my passion for promoting the interest of the girl child.” For his part, the author, Adekanmbi, said: “I was fascinated by the story of how Hajiya Hadizatu Mustapha’s parents, her father especially saw far into the future and accurately predicted her rise to the peak of her career. I was also fascinated by how she effortlessly builds and maintains a formidable network of friends and associates across socio-economic classes just by being so caring, hardworking and unassuming.” Also, the Chief Executive of Havilah Group, Mr. Lanre Adesuyi, described the book as ‘a seed planted for posterity.’ He added: “We mooted the idea of publishing Hadizatu U. Mustapha: From Head Girl to Supreme Court because our company, Havilah Group, is at the fore-front of promoting efficient records management in Nigeria. As Chief Registrar, Hajiya Mustapha, was instrumental to the transformation of the Supreme Court’s archive to achieve workplace efficiency through seamless records management. That project involved proper handling of the huge volume of the Court’s physical records. She also deserves to have her story properly documented.”