Guinness Nigeria restated its commitment to boosting investment in the country. This is just as the company has no plans to exit Nigeria, contrary to the orchestrated false publication. The company has said, its attention has been drawn to some false, malicious, and misleading publication trending on some social media platforms falsely alleging that Guinness Nigeria is relocating out of Nigeria and therefore planning to sell its lkeja Brewery site. “A bogus ‘sales brochure’ circulating online in various formats claims that the lkeja site sale is part of an exit plan, and this falsehood is being irresponsibly circulated by faceless persons purporting to be property agents,” it pointed out. It said Guinness Nigeria certainly has no plans to exit Nigeria, contrary to the orchestrated false publication making the rounds. To him, “we would also like to clearly state that the malicious publication is not in tandem with our current expansion and investment drive, as we recently reaffirmed our long-term strategic expansion plans in Nigeria with the acquisition of an additional 25-acre commercial property in the Ogba industrial area of Lagos purchased recently in late 2021. “Guinness Nigeria also recently announced our half year unaudited financial result for the six months ended December 31, 2021 in which we notified our shareholders of our stellar performance in which our six months’ operating profit grew by 266 per cent to N13.6 billion.” It stated further that “Contrary to the false information being circulated by detractors, we are renewed in our efforts to serve our revered consumers and creating more job opportunities for Nigerians as seen in the new $5 million additional production line recently commissioned at our Brewery in Ogba, Lagos in October 2021. “We are also pleased to state that we are on the verge of completing work on our new ultra-modern head office block located in lkeja where we will be moving in the next few weeks.” The company urged its employees, stakeholders, and members of the public to ignore the false, malicious, and misleading publication as it never emanated from the Management of Guinness Nigeria. 