Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, on Wednesday said Imo people should not allow Governor Hope Uzodimma to return to power for a second term in 2023. Wike said this during the reception organised by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to receive home the National Secretary of the party, Senator Samdaddy Anyanwu, alongside the National leadership led by the National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu in Owerri. According to him, the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC was unfit to rule the states and the country as a whole. The Rivers Governor said “Nigerians are angry and frustrated because the APC has failed them and we should all unite and push them away and reclaim our positions both at the national and state level. We will not tolerate any form of factions among members of the party adding that propaganda, blackmail and all forms of sabotage must be avoided for us to present a common front”. Further, he said the APC was divided against itself saying “A party that is unable to hold a convention, is unfit to rule Nigeria. Look at how PDP is organized by ts conversation without rancour and this is the only party that is fit to rule the nation. Imo electorates the greatest mistake you will make will be to allow Governor Uzodimma to come back to power again.” On his part, the chairman Board of Trustee of the PDP, Senator Wali Jubril said the PDP controlled Federal government will next year reposition the economy, tackle the security challenges rocking the nation, and embark on massive provision of infrastructure as well as job creation for the youths. The National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorcha Ayu blamed the root cause of the agitations for secession on political imbalance, marginalization of the South-East people, and assured the party would handle southeast issues like the late President Umaru Yar’Adua settled the Niger Delta agitation. He boasted that “The PDP would return to Aso Rock and take over Imo State come 2023”, saying the government in place today at the centre is not the government that listens.  Other governors in attendance were Abia, Uyo and Oyo States, Barr. Nyeso Wike, Mr. Okezie Ikpeazu, Udom Gabriel Emmanuel and Mr. Seyi Makinde, respectively, joined the PDP scribe in a grand reception.  Also speaking, former Governor of Imo State, Hon Emeke Ihedooha, said, “We had made our mistakes in the past and we won’t repeat them again. We will win all elections in Imo State come 2023.”  Meanwhile Senator Samuel Anyanwu vowed to use his office to unite PDP and return the party to winning ways, and assured that the PDP administration will change the narrative.  One of the decampees, Uzodimma’s former commissioner for foreign Affairs, Fabian Ihekweme, called for prayers for the governor saying “I plead with Imo people to remember the Governor in their prayers. He needs constant prayer offerings from all of us because the gatherings of the owls and other dark spiritual birds on the roof-top of the governor’s abode have become a very big hindrance to the effective running of government.