The executive secretary of Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Hon. Emmanuel Jime and the governor of Adamawa State, Umaru Fintiri have inaugurated a  Committee to aid the development of Vehicle Transit Areas ((VTAs) at  Ngurore near Yola and  Border Information Center (BIC) at Sahuda near the border area in Mubi, Adamawa State NSC and the Adamawa State Government, had previously met in Abuja where it was resolved that  a -ten member joint committee be inaugurated to fast track the development of these transport infrastructure projects. The Committee includes the host State Government and Nigerian Shippers’ Council. Speaking at the official inauguration of the Technical Committee, NSC boss maintained that the agency has the mandate to facilitate the development of transport infrastructure in the country. He also stressed that Shippers’ Council is working through to actualize modern VTAs in Nigeria. He expressed optimism that the joint technical committee will make a concerted effort to see to the realization of the projects in the state. According to him, Adamawa State is strategically positioned for the establishment of Vehicle Transit Areas and Border Information Centres. Speaking, the Executive Governor of Adamawa State, Umaru Fintiri, stated that the development of Vehicle Transit Areas at Ngurore and Sahuda at the border area as well as Border Information Centre in Mubi topped their discussions when they met in Abuja. Fintiri lauded NSC boss for his commitment towards the development of VTAs and BIC in Adamawa state. According to him, the VTAs and BIC, will not serve the Adamawa State alone but also  neighbouring countries like Cameroon, Chad and Central African Republic. He expressed optimism that the development of Vehicle Transit Areas will address indiscriminate parking of trucks on  roads in the State. Responding to concerns about insecurity, the governor said that the State has put in place measures which have resulted in the reduction of crimes to barest minimum. The  Co-Chairperson representing the Adamawa State Government on the joint committee, Hajia  Rabi Yahaya Ahmad said that Adamawa State will ensure the actualization of Vehicle  Transit Areas  and the Border  Information  Centre in the State. Co-Chairman representing Nigerian Shippers’ Council,  Mr. Phillip Eduwa, appreciated the Adamawa State Government for the pivotal role they  have played towards the development  of Vehicle Transit Areas and Border Information Centre  in Adamawa State. Eduwa maintained that NSC as facilitator of the projects will also play their  role towards the realization of the VTAs and BICs in Adamawa state. He called on the  Committee to enlighten the  stakeholders to get their  buy – in  for the  proposed  projects. The terms of reference of the Implementation committee include collaborate with relevant  agencies such as ICRC to obtain all the  necessary  guidelines  for the  development  of VTAs in line with standard specifications  and in compliance with international  best practices, to identify  all the  essential  requirements for execution of VTAs from inception to operational level and to also collaborate with land owners/host communities in order  to create adequate  sensitization and secure their  buy-in and  ensure  successful take-off of the  projects. 