Mobile food business is a lucrative venture , taking into consideration the fact that it is a necessity for people to eat. To this end, investing in mobile food business allows one the flexibility to sell food, snacks and drinks at any location through a cart or trailer. The ideal way to become successful is finding your own area of expertise in cooking as well as branding and becoming an expert at it. Mobile food business requires strategic planning. For example, some food truck vendors find success in combining costume dressing and are quite the orator to enhance their image. However, starting a mobile food operation comes with its own unique requirements and regulations. Initial Capital Many factors are involved to determine start-up costs for a food mobile food business in Nigeria. There are also one-time costs, as opposed to recurring start-up costs, and costs that can change based on the location. this includes purchasing a food truck, register point-of-sale (POS) system, truck wrap,  office supplies, marketing/advert, public relationship, and other professional, legal or consulting fees. While that list is not exhaustive, it gives an idea of the business needs. Fulfilling Business Legal Requirements The permits and licensing requirements for mobile food businesses vary from country to country, state to state, and even city to city. As such planning is vital. Selling through Social Media We are in the  technology age, selling as a Mobile Food Vendor in Nigeria, one should not be left out. One can market and sell food through the Internet. Customer Relations Good customer care service plays a great role in the success of this business. It is advisable to play this role yourself, but if you must hire help, it must be someone well experienced in dealing with people. Expanding the Business No matter the industry you belong to, the truth is that the market is dynamic and  requires consistency,  brand awareness and brand boosting, promotion to expand and continue to appeal to your targeted market. If you discover that your business has grown to a certain level, you can decide to set up in another location where targeted demand is. Hygiene and Maintenance Maintain and keep your surrounding in good condition; otherwise, you  might run the risk of having your licenses revoked. Do a daily inspection and checkup, making sure to clean the floors, appliances and surfaces with soap and disinfectants. You must keep all associated fixtures, fittings and equipment clean and in proper working order.