The Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) has described the awful performance of Nigeria’s sole participant at the ongoing Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics in China, Samuel Ikpefan, as disappointing and very painful. The history-making Olympian, Ikpefan, crashed out of competition for a medal at the Beijing Winter Games after finishing with a time of 3:09.57 in the Cross-country skiing event on Tuesday. The time and result for Ikpefan, means the 30-year-old skier finished in a distance 73rd position out of 88 participants in the Men’s Sprint Free category, a feat the Nigeria Olympic Committee are not pleased with. Reacting to Ikpefan’s elimination from the Winter Games medal contest on Tuesday, Mr Phemmy Adetula, spokesperson for the NOC, said Nigerians back home are in pain over the defeat of Ikpefan, a French born Nigerian athlete. Adetula, tells me the Nigeria Olympic body would review his performance to see how it can help him improve toward the next Olympics. “We are disappointed and really in pain about what happened this morning. It was unfortunate that he had to lose out of the medal contest,” Adetula said “This is the first time for Nigeria and whoever has been to the winter Olympics knows what it is. It is not always easy, though we are not happy about what happened because we were praying for this.“Nigerians back home are very in pain that he lost out, but since he has participated at the Olympics he is now an Olympian and we will take it up from there to see what can be done to improve toward the next Olympics.” Notwithstanding, it was a history-making Olympics for Ikpefan as he put Nigeria on the map with his heroics and the only athlete from Africa to compete in cross-country skiing at the Olympic Winter Games. Nigeria, the most populous African country, has never before sent a skier to the Olympic Winter Games. Ikpefan, who was raised in the French Alps chose to compete for his father’s country to make history and represent an entire continent. This is the second time Nigeria will be participating in Winter Olympics after making her debut in 2018 at the Pyeongchang Games in South Korea where Seun Adigun, Ngozi Onwumere, Akuoma and Simidele Adeagbo represented the country.Following the exploits of the pioneers, Team Nigeria will hope to be in contention at the next winter Olympics in 2026 scheduled for Milan and Cortina d’Ampezzo, Italy. Meanwhile, the International Fair Play Committee (CIFP) – in collaboration with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) – will honour exceptional acts of sportsmanship at the Beijing Olympic Winter Games through the Fair Play award.Nominations are now open, and entries are invited from National Olympic Committees, International Federations, athletes, coaches, as well as the public watching the Games around the world. Nominations can be submitted through the CIFP website and social media channels.