The nation was thrown into mourning of sorts when the news of the death of 19-month-old, Obinna Udeze, was reported in the media. Udeze died, allegedly, from flogging he received from his minder in A rise and Shine Primary School, Asaba, Delta State. The nation watched Udeze’s 28-year-old single mother, Gift Ohanazoeze, painfully narrate how her 19-month-old son was snatched away from her in a most gruesome way. Overwhelmed with anguish, she struggled to explain how she dropped a healthy Udeze at school only to pick up an unhealthy boy with bruises on his body. She alleged that her child was tied and beaten by the school proprietress. Gift recounted how, on confronting the school proprietress, the school owner seemed obstinate, showing little remorse for the action. According to the heartbroken mother, the school owner justified her action on the basis that the child was stubborn. She added that the proprietor’s son slapped her brother who confronted the proprietor over the sordid act. In a matter of hours after the confrontation, Udeze died. Another young promising life cut short even before he had an opportunity to define himself. Another family thrown into pain and anguish, a situation that seems to be becoming commonplace in our clime. The nation had barely recovered from the shock of Hanifa’s gruesome murder. Hanifa, a five-year-old pupil of Nobel Kids School at Kwanar Dakata in the Nasarawa Local Government Area of Kano State, was recently kidnapped and killed by the proprietor of the school, Abdulmalik Tanko and two others. Father of the victim, Abubakar Abdulsalam, narrated the heartbreaking ordeal and trauma the family has been going through over the killing of the child. No doubt these deaths attracted so much anger from Nigerians. There was rage mixed with enormous concern over how such young children could be killed by persons into whose care they were entrusted. Clearly, this situation tells a lot about mental state of the society as well as the level of mindlessness that pervades the polity. And to think that toddlers and innocent children could be subjected to such dastardly act, not to mention being killed by persons under whose care they were entrusted, says so much about how the country values it’s young. In the case of Udeze, there is definitely no justification for such a punishment, regardless of the intent of the proprietress. What excuse could there be for tying up a toddler and inflicting physical injury on him. Ordinarily, the psychological trauma of such treatment is enough to mentally scare any mind, much more a child that young. This death makes the call for a proper general review of the schooling system especially as it regards the safety of pupils decidedly urgent. Where it is assumed that a teacher is trying to discipline the child, through physical punishment, it is essential that such a punishment should be banned. It is needless to say that there has to be a deliberate conversation on how schools handle pupils under their care. The ministry of education needs to begin some sort of campaign on this issue before the nation records another incident like this. Of course, it goes without saying that whatever authority that school in Delta is operating on should have been revoked by now while the police and other authorities get to work on the matter. However, as a newspaper we believe that a quick dispensation of justice on this matter is not just essential but key to ensure some form of succour for the family and serve as deterrent against other school teachers inclined to over stress their role in the upbringing of a child. We urge swift action on the part of the police to ensure this matter gets the desired urgent attention. We also urge the judiciary to treat this matter with dispatch so as to bring the culprit to appropriate justice. The nation cannot afford to keep losing it young one or get infuriated only when the news of the next one hits the screens. The speed and detail with which the authorities handle this matter will clearly define the value we as a people place on our young ones and the future of Nigeria. More importantly, in our view, the government at all levels must begin to de-emphasise the revenue generating potentials of registering sub-standard schools and focus more on the content and quality of the personnel manning such schools. It is a known fact that the proprietors and staff of some of these schools are not trained in the art of looking after children of that age. Parents, on their part, should be more careful about the so-called schools they send their wards. A little more diligence would have saved the life of Dozie.