Chief executive officer (CEO) of the National Library of Nigeria (NLN), Professor Chinwe Anunuobi has said the apex library in the country will embark on the collation and documentation of Nigerian families ancestry in indigenous languages as a means of preserving indigenous mother tongues. The national librarian made this known at the conference on the “Use of Technology for Multilingual Learning: Challenges and Opportunities,” organized by the apex library to mark UN International Mother Language Day celebrated annually on February 21. Lamenting the state of indigenous languages in Nigeria, Anunobi noted that only 3,000 texts in indigenous languages are available in the entire repository of the national library, noting that both the library and the Nigerian people are doing a poor job in preserving indigenous languages. She, however noted that all hope was not lost as Nigeria can learn how best to preserve and digitalize her indigenous languages from countries as Bangladesh, and Bulgaria. To collate Nigerian families ancestry in the major indigenous languages of Igbo, Hausa and Yoruba, the national library will deploy its national Reading Promotion Campaign, RPC, but this time to reach the hard to reach areas documenting popular personalities, events and edifices in the various communities. The library will also work with researchers and scholars to document ancestral histories. “I know that so many families, institutions, cultures and socio-political and sociocultural issues have gone past us without remembrance. I sat down to look at some edifice and some prominent people in Nigeria, and even those who may not be deemed prominent nationwide, but in their localities and communities they are very strong and powerful people. However, there is no one to tell their stories, or to tell what they have contributed to their communities and to the nation. Hence, the decision to start the family book club. “This is a tall order but we have to start somewhere. I believe in the next twenty years, we will be able to tell a great grandchild of, say Sanusi Dantata, ‘your daddy was a great man,’ and be able to trace his family history and achievements. “We will do sensitization to tell them what we have to do, and collaborate with them, with the aid of the traditional rulers,” she said. Bulgarian Ambassador to Nigeria, Yanko Yordanov noted that the national library is collaborating with the Bulgarian National Library in developing meaningful partnerships between Nigeria and Bugarian libraries. “The National Director of the Bulgarian Library is exchanging experience and good practices f what we do in this field with Nigeria. They are two great ladies contributing much to bringing closer our two nations in terms of culture and knowledge.” Responding to the apex library’s quest for the preservation of indigenous languages, Director American Center, US Embassy in Nigeria, Aondoana Orlu, advised that the languages be preserved in its purest form, both sound and written form, via digitacuration for authenticity’s sake. The International Mother Language Day was established in Feb 21, 1999 by the United Nations to commemorate the sacrifice and death of hundreds of people in Bangladesh who fought for the recognition of the Bangla Language. The agency has also marked the year 2022 to 2032 as the decade for the preservation and promotion of indigenous languages across the world.