The recognition of the fact that election through which citizens express their wish and choice is democracy’s backbone explains the continuous effort by the various stakeholders in the democratization project to either amend the Electoral Law for the purpose of improving its quality or manipulating its existing provisions in a bid to achieve some political goals that are not necessarily helpful to the system. Since 2007 when late President Umaru Musa YarAdua in his inaugural address admitted that the electoral process which produced him as the country’s leader was noticeably flawed, the complaints have become much more pronounced. Although in 2015 the Independent National Electoral Commission [INEC] under Professor Attahiru Jega evidently raised the quality of the elections which caused the complaints to subside, there have still been observations that some critical parts of the process require urgent repairs. As, unarguably, a product and beneficiary of a reformed electoral process and also having unequivocally made commitment to, at the end of his tenure, leave behind a far better one, President Muhammadu Buhari is currently now being impatiently awaited to make the amendment of the law on election a clear reality. No any Nigerian leader had ever been justifiably expected to be a champion of electoral reform than Buhari. It is because of this tremendous expectation which the president appears to be too unwilling to meet that tension continues to mount over the issue. The clear indication, on his part, to ignore the persistent calls on him to assent the Electoral Bill which contains the fundamental amendments made by the National Assembly is widely considered as both a negation of his own vow and a display of insensitivity to the feelings of Nigerians. The various groups of advocates of the Electoral Reform which the assent of the president will definitely guarantee have voiced out sufficient concern over the inadequacies of the current law as much as they have continued to express confidence that an improved law is the only remedy of the identified flaws. The huge amount of energy deployed by the federal lawmakers in the course of the amendment and the tremendous interest that the exercise generated were all indications of the implacable desire of Nigerians to witness positive changes in the conduct of elections. Obviously, the advocates’ disappointment which has already turned into anger is speedily being re-enforced by the growing perception that the president’s refusal to assent the bill is yet another manifestation of his tendency for submission to the demands of elements within the political class. State Governors of particularly the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and some key functionaries of  government like the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, who have shown their total opposition to the inclusion of direct primaries as a strategy for the nomination of candidates as well as those individuals and groups that continuously criticize the proposal for the adoption of the electronic transmission of results are rightly seen as the forces that are trying to dissuade the president from giving his assent to the bill. By being so reluctant, the president has given himself away or, more precisely, portrayed himself as a leader who is unmindful about the consequences of such attitude. He does not seem to appreciate the fact that a failure to carry out a genuine reform of the electoral system now is most likely to have a negative effects on the forthcoming 2023 General Elections and, by extension, the country’s democracy. As a seeker of political power for twelve years (2003-2015) and now holder of it, President Buhari must have known the indispensability of elections in the enthronement and sustenance of credible democracy. Having lost several elections because of what he alleged to be a manipulation of the process which was made possible by the gaps in the system before he finally won in 2015 when some of the lapses were addressed, the president must have seen the two conflicting sides of the exercise and therefore the compelling necessity for adjustment. It is on the basis what is justifiably considered to be his exceptional experience in the political contest that Buhari is most strongly expected to show utmost enthusiasm towards not only the review of the Electoral Law but also the creation of conducive atmosphere for the conduct of credible elections as his contribution to the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria. A lot of the people who monitored his political journey and particularly noticed or even shared the pains he suffered over the years expressed more than enough confidence that he would, as a matter of absolute priority, guard the electoral reform process. All those state governors, ministers and some other politicians who are desperately working against the amendment are surely Buhari’s foes. Their unfavorable disposition to the popular quest for the expansion of the scope of participation in the nomination of candidates through the adoption of direct primaries represents an attempt to dent his image as a leader. President Goodluck Jonathan from whom Buhari took over power lost only the election and not his integrity, principally because he allowed for the necessary amendment of the Electoral Act which translated into a conduct of credible exercise. The former leader made up for his real and perceived weakness with a giant effort towards the provision of all the necessary frameworks that made the improvement of the quality of elections a clear possibility. Although in his latest reaction to the widespread agitation, the president said the period within which he is constitutionally required to assent to the bill has not yet elapsed, the general impression that he is extremely unwillingly to satisfy the yearning of the people is making the tension to continue to rise. The scenario that has already emerged as a result of Buhari’s negative attitude toward the Electoral Act amendment is such that has depleted public confidence and trust in the government particularly in the area of the promotion and sustenance of democracy. All the fury being expressed and the resultant plan for mass protest by Civil Society Organizations are products of both the realization of the primacy of a reformed electoral system and the fear that President Buhari is not likely to allow the country have it. His failure to come to terms with the fact that Nigerians have already dismissed the current flawed electoral system as a broken backbone of democracy that should be urgently replaced is terribly disturbing and is the most obvious source of the prevailing crisis.