It was a dream come true for the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as President Muhammadu Buhari commissioned an internet-enabled Lafia Branch of the apex bank in Lafia, Nasarawa state. President Buhari,  while inaugurating the structure yesterday, said the massive facility was constructed to ensure the Central Bank has visible prep offices in Nigeria. The building was anchored by the CBN’s development finance department for easy and efficient delivery of the bank’s projects to the people CBN governor Godwin Emefiele said the building is partly to drive the bank’s financial inclusion initiative and fulfil the its goal of providing a conducive and safe working environment for staff of the bank. He disclosed that in recent past, the apex bank has also developed branch buildings in eight other State capitals. He urged Nigerians to embrace the digital currency as a way of fostering greater financial inclusion. “As a people-oriented Central Bank, our commitment to ensuring financial inclusion remains unwavering, hence, we believe that having a replica of offices of the Central Bank in State capitals will help support the Bank’s goal of taking our well-thought central banking services and interventions nearing those at the grassroots,” Emefiele remarked yesterday in Lafia. Construction work has been completed in the branches at Abakaliki, Ado-Ekiti, Birnin-Kebbi, Dutse,  Gusau  and Yenagoa, while those at Jalingo and Damaturu would be completed soon, according to official information. When that is done, CBN will have structures in all states of the federation. The building was done using mainly local content, in line with government’s resolve to promote the utilisation of Nigerian resources and services as a way of enhancing the capabilities of indigenous people without having to compromise quality, safety, health or environmental standards. Emefiele said the construction of the Lafia branch is pursuant to the federal government’s statutory requirement for the presence of a Central Bank of Nigeria in every state of the federation, for currency and business transactions by government agencies and corporate entities. The complex was completed on August 13, 2021 and  comprises of the main and ancillary buildings spread out with parking lots, fuel dump and security posts; water storage and treatment plants among others, positioned as appropriate and approved by the Nasarawa state building regulatory authorities. The main building occupies an area of 3206.58sq. meters, comprising of four floors including a basement floor total 8000sqm. The floors consist of well finished office spaces for staff, equipment, storage as well as the installation of mechanical and electrical services, parking spaces to accommodate 100 cars for both visitors and staff. On Tuesday this week, the CBN unveiled its strategy for 2021 – 2024, in line with the focus to create an enabling environment that will drive both public and private sectors’ participation in the real sector with strategic deliverables around price stability, job creation, financial inclusion, import substitution and accretion to foreign reserves. Executive director, finance and accounts, Qunitec Limited, local contractor that handled the CBN building, Mohammed Umoru said the delivery of the project is a testament that as indigenous companies “we can do it.” “What we have today is a testimony to that submission. We were awarded the contract and we took it headlong as a challenge. We have been able to deliver. Everybody is happy over it,” he said. Acknowledging that there were challenges in the period of executing the project, Umoru said many unpredictable things certainly cropped up; social and political. But his firm was never deterred from staying out in the plan for a quality facility for the CBN. “The bottom line is, we overcame everything and we surmounted the challenges with the assistance of CBN”. Emefiele restated that the apex bank remains committed to the objective to providing a conducive environment to enable individuals and corporates harness their true potential to contribute to the overall development of the Nigerian economy. “Our unflinching belief that every Nigerian deserves an opportunity to contribute their quota to our country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), necessitated our development of initiatives such as the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP); the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF); the Agri-Business/Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Scheme (AgSMEIS); the Tertiary Institutions’ Entrepreneurship Scheme (TIES) and lately, the 100 for 100 Policy on Production and Productivity and the Race to $200 Billion FX Repatriation (RT200) among others. These are some of the interventions that speak directly to accessibility to finance for women, youth and those at the grassroots as well as deepening the export potential of Nigerian businesses,” he stated. 