The federal government has reiterated its commitment to enact and implement policies that will ensure the success of the ecosystem. The minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Professor Isa Pantami, who disclosed this at an interactive session, organised by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), emphasised that, the federal government is open and willing to suggestions on what it can do to further ensure the success of the ecosystem. Pantami cited the National Startup Bill, the National Council for Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship, the National Policy for the Development of Indigenous Content in the Telecommunications sector, among others, as examples of government’s commitment to enact and implement policies that enable the ecosystem. He disclosed that incentives like grants, tax and fiscal incentives, startup labelling, seed funding for startups, tax holidays have been provided for, in the plan to provide the necessary support by government. Pantami mentioned that the presidency is ready to make sure the bill meets excellent execution, while commending the work of the startup ecosystem for pushing Nigeria to become the largest digital economy in Africa and it’s time to work closely together to achieve greater hallmark. He said: “If there are challenges in implementing any of the policies we have put in place for the sector to thrive, please let us know.” The minister said, Nigeria as the largest digital economy in Africa which is in the process of deploying fifth generation networks (5G), the immense human potential and with  the necessary collaborations and partnerships between government and the ecosystem, the country will in no time take its pride of place as the continent’s technology giant. He however challenged startups and innovators in the Nigeria ecosystem to take ownership of existing policies to further consolidate and enhance the success of the ecosystem. “The importance of a vibrant, functional innovation ecosystem cannot be underscored and that is why we have taken deliberate steps to organise this interactive session specifically, to address certain pertinent issues. “Firstly, how to consolidate our ecosystem, secondly to understand the market and its challenges, thirdly, to map our market and set targets, to strengthen our networking strategies and more importantly, collaborating and partnering with government. This is key to the success of our ecosystem because government has a major role to play in providing an enabling environment,” he added.