BY FELIX IGBEKOYI, Asaba At least three oil workers have been feared dead after a Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel exploded on Wednesday in Delta State. The incident occurred near Meren field, a North Field Oil Facility, owned by one of the multinational oil and gas companies operating along the Nigerian coastline. More than 12 other persons were said to have been missing on Thursday morning as at the time of filing this report. A security source privy to the development said apart from the three corpses alleged to have been recovered another three persons have been rescued alive. The victims were on board during the explosion at the Escravos area of Warri South-West local government area of the state while the deaths have caused palpable tension among residents and oil workers especially workers manning oil facilities. It was gathered that the vessel known as Trinity Spirit FPSO was said to have gone up in flames around the Escravos Sea where major exploration activities are taking place in the Niger Delta region. It was not clear the number of workers on board when the explosion occurred but sources claimed no fewer than 15 persons were on board when the accident happened. An oil worker (name withheld), while confirming the incident, alleged that the vessel exploded as a result of “failing safety critical equipment”. “It was the Trinity Spirit FPSO that exploded in Escravos Field on Wednesday. 12 men missing, three injured were saved. Three corpses have been recovered. It was equipment failure that resulted in the explosion”, our source added. Meanwhile, residents of Delta State living around the coastal area are now living in fear of crude oil spill into the creeks by the exploded vessel. Efforts to get official responses on the incident have proved abortive as calls to relevant authorities including the police were not picked at the time of filing this report. The fire was still raging uncontrollably as at Thursday noon when this report was filed. According to the company in a release, “The facility, TRINITY SPIRIT, was built in 1976 (46 years ago), with a carrying capacity of 274774 Dead Weight Tonnage (DWT) and overall length of 337.05 meters as well as a width of 54.5 meters. “The asset is owned by Shebah Exploration and Production Company Limited (SEPCOL) which in 2004 acquired all of 40 per cent of ConocoPhillips equity interest in OML 108. “SEPCOL (now in receivership), is owned by a combination of Nigerian and overseas corporate entities, which include: Abbeycourt Trading Company Limited (ATCO), Abbeycourt Petroleum Company Limited and Allenne Limited. “The FPSO serves as the primary production facility for OML 108 and is also a government approved terminal for lifting operations for all OML 108 production.” A statement by the chief executive officer, Shebah Exploration and Production Company Ltd (in receivership), Ikemefuna Okafor, was silent on whether there were casualties or injuries.