Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon Nasir Muazu Magarya, told members that Governor Matawalle had nominated Senator Gusau to serve as deputy governor of the state. The Speaker said the letter from the governor to this effect tipped Senator Gusau as the most suitable for the position of deputy governor of the state. “The nominee has been very active and up and doing in the political activities of the state since 1999 holding various political positions at various levels,” he added. After careful deliberations, the members passed resolution on the affirmation of Senator Gusau’s nomination as the new deputy governor of the state. The Speaker of the state assembly announced the passage of the resolution of the members of the House approving the nomination of the new deputy governor. “By virtue of section 199, the members hereby affirmed the nomination of Sen. Hassan Mohammed Gusau as the new deputy governor”, the Speaker affirmed. The Zamfara state House of Assembly had announced the impeachment of the state deputy governor, Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, after a resolution reached at a plenary session on the deliberation of the report by the seven-man panel which submitted its report to the Speaker. The Speaker told the members that the seven-man investigative panel had indicted the deputy governor of gross misconduct. After the presentation of the report, all the 20 members of the House who were present went into election and voted in the affirmative. The members finally passed a resolution for the removal of the deputy governor from office for gross misconduct. Accordingly, the Speaker directed that the resolution be submitted to secretary to the state government for further necessary action. Meanwhile, reactions have continued to trail the impeachment of the deputy governor. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Abdul Balogun, wondered why politicians will not learn from past mistakes of political office holders. According to him, if the deputy governor feels the exercise leading to his impeachment is a charade, he should approach the court to seek redress. ”Most of the impeachments done before now have always been overturned by the court. This is not likely to be an exception because the deputy governor has cried out to the world about the plot. ”Apart from that, the case challenging the impeachment plot is already in court. I doubt if the impeachment will stand,” the learned silk stated. Also, a professor of law, Aminu R Murtala, said impeachment has become a tool to get at perceived political enemies. According to him, governors now see impeachment as a way of getting at those who disagree with them politically. ”If the deputy governor feels the impeachment should not stand, he should approach the court to set it aside. If he has a good ground for the nullification of his impeachment, I’m sure he will get justice from the court”, he said. On his part, a constitutional lawyer, Barrister Paul Abba, blamed the state House of Assembly members who he said have become puppets of the governors. He said in most of the states in Nigeria, the Houses of Assembly have been pocketed by the governor. ”Obviously, the deputy governor is not on good terms with the governor and the governor arranged the lawmakers in the state to get him impeached”, he said.