Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello has urged Nigerians to ensure that the 2023 presidential race must be about the emergence of young, vibrant and educated Nigerian leaders. Speaking when he received the advocacy team of The Nigeria Agenda which was on a visit to Niger State, Governor Bello who was represented at the event by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, noted that the 2023 presidential race must usher an era of rapid social and physical development in the country and this can only be realised through the emergence of young, vibrant and highly educated President and other elected officials. A statement by the Chief Advocate of the TNA, Niyi Akinsiju, quoted the governor as saying: “To achieve this, all political parties are enjoined to make sure only young, vibrant and educated candidates emerged on their respective platforms. This has become important because of the need to deliberately tap into the large population of young Nigerians that are highly educated, vibrant and have  impressive records of experience in government. And capable of unlocking the potential of the country for rapid social and physical development.” Governor Bello also expressed support and enthusiasm for the issues and values being canvassed by the advocacy team of The Nigeria Agenda. In response to the call by the convener of The Nigeria Agenda, Mallam Ahmad Sajoh, for Nigerians to imbibe values that strengthen national unity, cross-ethnic and religious bonding and good neighborliness, the Governor said: “The Government of Niger state supports the values being propagated by The Nigeria Agenda and will actively back the national conversation the advocacy team is engendering among Nigerians. “The messages of unity and politics devoid of ethnic and religious biases in the country as being amplified by The Nigeria Agenda are germane to strengthening the country and facilitating a class of leadership that will reflect the diversities of Nigeria and aggregate our differences for positive development rather than the needless conflicts that had characterised and distracted us collectively in our journey to a highly developed economic, social and political nation,” the Governor added. Niger state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mohammed Idris, who is also an active member of The Nigeria Agenda advocacy group, outlined the role of the group as it makes to trigger a Nigerian social and political renaissance through citizens’ sensitisation. “At the heart of the advocacy of The Nigeria Agenda is the objective of facilitating linkages between citizens and leadership recruitments. And in so doing, enable an empowered and we’ll motivated citizens that can make leadership accountable to them,” the commissioner said.