The minister of state for petroleum resources, Chief Timipre Sylva has assured that Nigeria is doing a lot currently to be able to meet its OPEC production quota by the end of this year. This is so that the country can maximize the current rise in crude oil prices in the international market. Sylva who gave the assurance yesterday in Abuja while during a press briefing on the forthcoming Nigerian International Energy Summit (NIES) which commences from this Sunday, expressed dissatisfaction that Nigeria is not able to benefit from the current high prices of crude oil. “I can assure you that we’re doing everything. Already our production is not where it was a few months ago. We are beginning to climb up gradually and we are hoping that by the end of this year, we will completely regain that production quota.” “We are not happy at all, that we’re not able to take advantage of the high prices today that we can see. So it is it is our loss before it is yours. So we are everything to ensure that we were able to get back our production The minister noted that the high prices of crude also encourage other producers and that is not beneficial to crude oil producers” “When prices go high there are other competing production that will also start ramping up for example, the shale producers in America will also now find it profitable. Whereas if the price is at a certain level, it will not be profitable for them to produce their shift. So once the oil prices go up to a certain point, you are encouraging the level of production that will otherwise not be in the market. “So we are not happy when prices go to a certain high level. We believe that prices should be at a certain point, which will be optimal for us, but suboptimal for the shale producers. That’s why we like to have that that balance right here in Nigeria as well. Briefing on the Nigeria International Energy Summit, Sylva said the federal government of Nigeria official energy industry event with the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources and all its parastatals including the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NURPC), Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA), Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF) and Petroleum Training Institute (PTI) are joint hosts. According to him, the objective of the summit from inception is to deliver the biggest and best African Petroleum Technology and Business Conference that will be the definitive platform, not just for Nigeria, but also for Africa to engage the global energy community. I believe that we have delivered on that with every edition. The event was formerly known as the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS). The first edition was held in 2018. Thus, this year’s edition will be the 5th edition. However, Sylva said “in line with the global agenda for energy transition and the need for us to remain relevant and ahead, we rebranded the summit and it became known as Nigeria International Energy Summit (N.I.E.S). This year’s edition will take place from February 27 th to March 3rd, 2022 in Abuja. The opening ceremony and the award dinner will take place at the Banquet Hall, Presidential Villa while the plenary sessions and the exhibition will happen at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja. “The theme of the summit, “Revitalizing the Industry: Future Fuels and Energy Transition”. Our objective is to drive a new narrative and make energy transition the cornerstone of the country’s industry policy.” “The event producers, Brevity Anderson, are leveraging on the successes of the past four editions of the event to make NIES 2022 bigger, better. The minster said some of our confirmed international guests include The Honourable Minister of Energy, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud, who will be represented by Dr Nasser AlDossary. Others are Hon. Tom Alweendo, Minister of Mines and Energy, Namibia, H.E Gabriel Mbaga Obiang Lima, Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons, Equatorial Guinea and H.E Aime Ngoy Mukena, Minister of Hydrocarbons, Democratic Republic of Congo. The global energy leader and the Secretary General of Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Dr Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo has also confirmed his attendance. “Going by past statistics, we are expecting over 5,000 participants from about 53 countries; 4,182 sq m exhibition space occupied by about 60 exhibitors and five country pavilions. There will be about 11 plenary sessions,  seven breakout, sessions, four Special presentations, three cocktail receptions, Award/Gala Dinner, MoU signings/Side events etc” he said. “We have had interesting outcomes from the summit. They have been embraced by the government, policy makers and the industry as a whole. Let me list some of them here; The conversation around the exit of government from Joint Venture cash call funding emanated from this summit; The push to diversify Nigeria’s economy and drive industrialization through focus on domestic utilization of natural gas which culminated to the declaration of 2020 as the year of natural gas for Nigeria; Nigeria’s Decade of Gas initiative. After several years of planning, the National Gas Transportation Network Code (NGTNC) was finally launched at this summit; The United States Trade Development Agency (USTDA) signed a phenomenal deal to finance the development of 1.35 megawatts power plant here in Abuja with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation NNPC at the summit. Key international and indigenous companies like Shell Petroleum & Development Company Limited, Total Exploration & Production, Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited, Dangote Refinery, WaltersmithPetroman and a host of others used the summit platform for special presentations to drive their aspirations and launch major projects. Others are the Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives made definitive statements on the passage of the PIB at this summit