The Nigerian Army said the troops of 82 Division Nigerian Army, on Wednesday, February 23, 2022, arrested three and bursted the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN) syndicate behind electoral violence in Enugu State. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig Gen Onyema Nwachukwu, in a statement, said the troops conducted clearance against IPOB/ESN at Azia, Orsumoghu, Lilu Forest, Mbosi and Uli in Ihiala and Orsu local government areas of Anambra and Imo States respectively. He said during the clearance operations, troops overpowered and routed the dissidents, who staged an ambush against the gallant troops and proceeded to clear Lilu Forest despite resistance from the outlawed group. “The criminals were again over ran by the troops who effectively cleared Lilu Forest and the adjoining areas earlier occupied by the dissidents.
During the clearance operations, the troops uncovered decomposing remains of kidnapped and murdered victims dumped in a deep well by members of the irredentist groups,” he said. He added that during the operations, the troops encountered and cleared four ambush sites along roads Orsumoghu-Mbosi-Ihiala-Uli, dislodging the irredentists from their criminal havens. “The gallant troops neutralised one of the criminals, arrested three suspects and recovered one Pump Action Shotgun, two live Cartridges, two mobile phones, One black coloured Toyota Hilux vehicle, a polythene bag containing substances suspected to be Cannabis and the sum of #1, 920,” he added. In a separate operation conducted on Thursdsy, February 24, 2022, troops of 82 Division Nigerian Army in collaboration with the Nigerian Police bursted an IPOB/ESN syndicate that disrupted the just-concluded local government elections at some polling stations in Nkanu West of Enugu State. He said during the intelligence-driven operation, carried out around Centenary Estate Obeagu Uno, the troops uncovered seven AK 47 rifles, two Pump Action rifles, 10 rifle Magazines, 8 live cartridges, 74 live rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition, one hand grenade, a tipper truck containing three corpses among other items. He added that the items have been handed over to the Enugu State Police Command for further action. The Nigerian Army, therefore, reassured residents of South-East Nigeria of its commitment to restoring lasting peace in the region.