A member of the House of Representatives, Shina Peller stirred the hornet nest recently when he sponsored a bill seeking to scrap the National Security And Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The bill seeks to repeal the NSCDC Act of 2007 and transfer the personnel and assets of the agency to the Nigeria Police Force. According to a synopsis of the bill, it is intended to create a transition management committee to superintend over the NSCDC, develop regulations and implement procedures for the transfer of assets and personnel of the Corps to the Nigeria Police Force. The sponsors of the bill, in their submission, claim that the expansion of the functions of NSCDC is a duplication of the mandate of the police. They further assert that the agency is currently a waste of public resources. In the considered opinion of this newspaper, merging the Nigeria Police Force and the Civil Defence Corps is a bad idea that will contrary to ongoing efforts to confront the pervasive security challenges plaguing the nation. The NSCDC since its establishment has been complementing the police in very significant areas such as protection of public property in some very remote areas. The NSCDC Act of 2003 which provides the legal framework for the establishment of the corps is very clear on what duties and functions of the Corps are. It was commissioned to provide measures against the threat and any form of attack or disaster against the nation and its citizenry. The corps is statutorily empowered by Act No. 2 of 2003 and amended by Act 6 of 4th June 2007. The contentious section of the act Section 5 (3) of the Act, says it will “have the power to arrest with or without a warrant, detain, investigate and institute legal proceedings by or in the name of the Attorney-General of the Federation in accordance with the provisions of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria against any person who is reasonably suspected to have committed an offense under this Act.” No doubt, we have consistently called for the merger of agencies to save cost and avoid duplication but the  NSCDC mandate is clearly different from that of the police. It is instructive to note that the primary function of the NSCDC is to maintain 24-hour surveillance over infrastructure, sites, and projects for the Federal. State and Local Government. This mandate of guarding national assets and infrastructure requires absolute protection in terms of threat deterrence and sanctioning any act of vandalism. In view of the rising attack on critical infrastructure in the country like the railway tracks, pipeline vandalism, and power installations there is a need to even deploy more Civil Defence personnel to those places. Besides, the existence of the Corps is not peculiar to Nigeria. The Civil Defence Corps was first established in 1949 in Great Britain and was designed to be a voluntary organization. Its mandate was to mobilise and take control of affected areas in the aftermath of a major national emergency. The world over both operate as independent entities. No doubt, Nigeria is passing through one of its worst security crises as every region is experiencing one security challenge or another. The police are Ill-equipped and underfunded to handle most of the security challenges in the country. We make bold to say that merging the police with the NSCDC  will just compound their woes. NSCDC Recovers N56.9m, Treats 1,578 Cases In Niger Sadly, the Nigerian police have suffered neglect at the hands of successive governments and this must stop. The barracks of police officers is an eyesore not fit to be habited by human beings. In 2017, the International Police Science Association’s World Internal Security and Police Index, WISPI, ranked the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) as the worst in the world, coming in as the 127th out of 127 countries on the scale. The WISPI ranking examines the four domains of internal security, capacity, process, legitimacy, and outcomes. Because in the early ‘70s and ‘80s, Nigeria paraded one of the best police establishments in Africa and beyond, this ranking is a monumental tragedy. The  Nigerian population is approximated at over 200 million with a police force of 370,000 personnel. This is inadequate considering the United Nations recommendation of 450 population per police officer. This deficiency in number is further exacerbated by antiquated and decadent operational techniques. From the foregoing, we call for holistic reform of the police starting from the recruitment process. There should also be massive recruitment into the police force to bridge the gap. The country needs massive recruitment into all its security agencies NSCDC inclusive. Consequently, we insist that the proposed merger of the NSCDC with the police should be discarded as it will be counterproductive in the long run. Instead of a merger, the personnel should be deployed to those areas believed to be ungoverned. That will help to stem the tide of insecurity in the country. Let NSCDC be.