After weeks of anticipation and outright suspense, the president eventually appended his assented to the electoral bill. But Buhari did not sign the bill into an Act without getting a firm commitment from the National Assembly for an immediate review of section 84 (12) of the law which restricts serving political appointees, including ministers, from seeking elective offices. The said section of the Act provides that political appointees seeking elective offices must first of all resign their appointments and that they. It stipulates: “No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the Convention or Congress of any political party for the nomination of candidates for any election.” Speaking at the council chamber of the presidential villa after appending his assent to the bill, President Buhari who said the latest version of the bill was a great improvement from the earlier version which he refused to sign in November 2021 said in line with established tradition, he received inputs from relevant ministries, departments and agencies of government after careful and thorough reviews of the bill and its implications for the democratic processes in Nigeria. He said, “The practical application of section 84(12) of the Electoral Bill, 2022 will, if assented to, by operation of law, subject serving political office holders to inhibitions and restrictions referred to under section 40 and 42 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “It is imperative to note that the only constitutional expectation placed on serving political office holders that qualify, by extension as public officers within the context of the constitution is resignation, withdrawal or retirement at least 30 days before the date of the election. “Hence, it will be stretching things beyond the constitutional limit to import extraneous restriction into the constitution on account of the practical application of section 84(12) of the bill where political parties’ conventions and congresses were to hold earlier than 30 days to the election. “Arising from the foregoing, with particular regards to the benefits of the Bill, industry, time, resources and energy committed in its passage, I hereby assent to the Bill and request the Nationally Assembly to consider immediate amendments that will bring the Bill in tune with constitutionality by way of deleting section 84(12) accordingly”. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Senate President Ahmed Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, chief of staff to the president, and secretary to government of the federation were present to witness the signing of the bill. Although the president admitted that the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2022 passed by the National Assembly holds a lot of promise for improving the electoral process in the country, with the introduction of new technology and efforts to engender clarity and transparency, he highlighted the need to amend section 84 (12), which he said contravenes the rights of political office holders to vote or be voted for in political party conventions and congresses. The president noted: “Distinguished Senators and honourable members of the National Assembly, from the review it is my perspective that the substance of the Bill is both reformative and progressive. I am making this bold declaration because I foresee the great potential of the Bill. Worthy of note include the democratic efficacy of the Bill with particular reference to sections 3, 9(2), 34, 41, 47, 84(9), (10) and (11) among others. “This, however, cannot be said about one provision as contained in the proposed Bill, which provision constitutes a fundamental defect, as it conflicts with extant constitutional provisions. “Section 84 (12) constitutes a disenfranchisement of serving political office holders from voting or being voted for at Conventions or Congresses of any political party, for the nomination of candidates for any election in cases where it holds earlier than 30 days to the national election”. President Buhari commended the National Assembly for their commitment and dedication to improving the previous Electoral Bill 2021. “It is gratifying to note that the current Bill comes with a great deal of improvement from the previous Electoral Bill 2021. There are salient and praiseworthy provisions that could positively revolutionize elections in Nigeria through the introduction of new technological innovations. These innovations would guarantee the constitutional rights of citizens to vote and to do so effectively. “The Bill would also improve and engender clarity, effectiveness and transparency of the election process, as well as reduce to the barest minimum incidences of acrimony arising from dissatisfied candidates and political parties. “These commendable efforts are in line with our policy to bequeath posterity and landmark legal framework that paves the way for a credible and sound electoral process that we would all be proud of,’’ he said. On their part, Senate President Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabimila, commended the president for giving Nigerians a law that will improve the nation’s electoral system. Lawan pledged that the parliament would look into the president’s request on section 84 (12), saying the parliament expects an immediate communication on the proposed amendment. “You know, this is a legitimate request. And that is why I commend the president. I will commend him for so many things, but let me also qualify it that even though he disagreed with the section, especially clause 84(12), that talks about public political office holders, he still went ahead to sign the bill into law and that is to show his commitment and desire to have an electoral law that will ensure that we have better outcomes when we do election. “So we will look at what is asking for, I hope that they will send the request for the amendment in good time. Because time is of the essence, INEC is waiting. And because we don’t want to spill over some of these dates unnecessarily we will be expecting communication from Mr President to this. And then the National Assembly in both chambers will look into the request for the amendment but.On the whole I think this is a wonderful development for this administration, for Nigeria, for the evolution and development and growth of democracy in Nigeria,” Lawan said. For his part, Gbajabimila said the 9th Assembly had delivered major legislations in its three years of existence. “So we have over a year left and I believe we will begin to polish off some other pieces of legislation but the major ones, we have dispatched within the interest of Nigeria,” he said. Reacting to the development, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) said they will continue to demand for electoral transparency, even as theycommended President Buhari, the media, National Assembly and other Nigerians for standing on the right path. The executive director of the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, said assenting to the electoral bill was a big achievement that should be commended. Rafsanjani who also doubles as the chairman, Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), thanked the National Assembly, Media, CSO and Nigerians for the collective success on having a new amendment to the electoral Act. He said that under democracy people cannot be suppressed by the few interests groups, noting that CSOs will continue to demand electoral transparency in order to have good governance in Nigeria. Rafsanjani said that President Buhari has fulfilled his obligations by upholding the values of democracy and assenting the electoral bill. Rafsanjani noted that the protest, which CISLAC was part of, became necessary owing to the fact that the President Buhari-led administration has declined assent to the bill twice. According to the CISLAC helmsman, the electoral act will guarantee INEC’s financial independence, which in turn will ensure the electoral umpire gets early funding on time to prepare for election. In the same vein, Mr Rafsanjani appealed to Nigerians to comply with the electoral law. He also appealed to Civil Society Organisations and the media not to relent in fighting for social justice as only then would we able to achieve the Nigeria of our dreams. Also, reacting to the development, regional bodies, political parties and CSOs urged INEC and other relevant authorities to ensure enforcement of the law. The apex Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo said the signing of the bill into law will help to broaden and deepen democracy in Nigeria. Spokesman of Ohananeze, Alex Ogbonnia, however insisted that it has put INEC on the alert to prepare for a transparent election in 2023. Ogbonnia stated that with the signing, INEC has enough time to plan for the 2023 election, adding that INEC should not fail the people. Also, the apex northern sociocultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) commended President Buhari for signing the bill into law. In the same vein, Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) and the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) applauded the president for taking the bold step in signing the Electoral Act. ACF through its national publicity secretary, Mr Emmanuel Yawe said, “It is a positive sign. The political temperature was unnecessarily heated up because of the delay in signing the bill. We hope this will go down if the demands of those agitating for the bill to become an Act are met. We also hope that this will lead to a smooth general election next year”. Also, the Northern Elders Forum (NEF), through its spokesperson Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, “This is a welcomed development, even though a little bit belated. INEC will roll out a comprehensive timeline. There is so much riding on what exactly is amended and how it will contribute to the quality of elections and the processes in this country. “It is full of traps and daily people are putting more traps, we will however wait and see the actual content of the amended bill, because when I see what is amended and how it will contribute to the elections in this country, then one can talk more, I hope they will publicise it and I hope people will get opportunity to make an input and above all it is important we emphasis on the orderly and peaceful political electoral and other election activities.” AYCF through the national president, Alhaji Yerima Shettima, said “I commend the president to have done what he did, this is what is expected from him as a statesman, it is one thing to sign the electoral bill and it is another thing for Nigerians to do the right thing. Often time people do the wrong thing not because there are no laws but because they don’t put them into practices and that is why sometimes things happen wrongly. Today I am happy he signed the amended Electoral Act, so nobody will hold him responsible for not signing it.” Also speaking, the CNG through its spokesperson AbdulAzeez Suleiman said, “What is important is that the president has at last signed the bill after it suffered several rejections. It is now for legal experts and other professionals to x-ray and dissect its practical implications. “Meanwhile, like most Nigerians who have called for electoral reforms, we are optimistic that the law will ease electoral processes and promote fairness and credibility in future elections especially that it also provides for the use of electronic voting and electronic transmission of results”. On its part, the Pan Yoruba Social political organization, Afenifere, said the signing of the electoral Bill into law by President Buhari without constitutional amendment and restructuring of the country will not yield the desired results. Afenifere’s acting leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, who stated this said, “I am not impressed, I am not impressed because to go into any election, without restructuring the country is an exercise in futility. ‘’Why conducting the election when the constitution under which you operate is against the election and the people, the constitution is fraudulent, we agreed it is fraudulent, why is he trying to change it, we all knew it is a military constitution, they(military) set aside the constitution Nigeria founding fathers gave to us. “The military came with their own constitution and inserted in it, all the things our founding fathers have got rid of on credibility, but we should have told the military to return to the barracks with their constitution, but we failed to do that. That is my view, mind you I have few years to spend with you, but I have to leave my word with you.’’ Also speaking, the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) said by signing the electoral bill into law, Buhari has advanced Nigeria’s democracy. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Weekend, president of the forum, Dr Bitrus Pogu, expressed optimism that Nigerians will experience more transparency in the electoral process. “Of course, the Middle Belt Forum is so grateful to Mr President. By signing the electoral bill, he has advanced our democracy. “He has improved on the quality and transparency and the credibility of our elections. However, we should not stop at this point because it is not just voting electronically and transmitting the election results electronically. The number of accredited voters must be transmitted electronically,” Pogu said. “So, the transmission should also include the accredited voters so that if the votes are transmitted, it will conform to the accredited people that took part in the process. “We thank the president for obliging to the cry of Nigerians by signing this bill into law. So, our position is that it will not just be about transmission of election results electronically, but also transmission of the accredited voters,” Pogu added. Also, the umbrella body of political parties in the country, Inter-party Advisory Council (IPAC), described the president’s action as a big achievement for the 2023 general elections. IPAC said with the signing, Buhari has improved the electoral legal framework for the country. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Weekend yesterday, IPAC chairman, Yabagi Sani, congratulated the president, INEC and Nigerians on the feat. “We congratulate the president for doing that. It is a landmark achievement. We now have an electoral bill that we can use for the 2023 general election. “It’s a big achievement. IPAC congratulate the President and Nigerians. We also congratulate INEC because they now have an improved electoral legal framework. So, we are happy,” Sani said On the return of the Electoral Act to the National Assembly for more work on section 8, IPAC said it is the prerogative of the president to do that, adding that he must protect the constitution of the country. On its part, the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) commended President  Buhari for signing the electoral bill into law, saying it is a development which provides an improved legal framework in the lead up to 2023 electioneering processes and all coming elections. A statement by national secretary of the party, Sen John James Akpanudodehe, noted: “This is a big win for our electioneering processes and our democracy. Since 2015 when the President Buhari-led APC government came into being, our commitment and support for constitutionally-permitted innovations that will improve the transparency and credibility of Nigeria’s electioneering processes and internal democracy, have not been in doubt. The new Electoral Act is another pointer. “From legal backing given to election management bodies to review election results declared under duress, provisions for people with disabilities and special needs, electronic transmission of election results among other key provisions, current and coming generations will fondly remember President Buhari as the courageous leader who institutionalised credible elections and internal democracy in Nigeria. “We note with appreciation the patriotic efforts of the National Assembly, civil societies, development partners and indeed all well-meaning Nigerians whose collective efforts and support has birthed the new Electoral Act. “The task of improving the credibility of our elections is a collective and continuous one. As a party and government, we will continue to champion needed reforms. We hereby call on well-meaning Nigerians to join us to completely stamp out past practices of electoral fraud weaponised by past administrations of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).” But the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the newly signed Electoral Act is a death knell for the APC) which thrives in manipulations, ballot box snatching, ballot box stuffing and alteration of election results at the collation centers against the expressed will of the people. It congratulated Nigerians, particularly Civil Society Organizations for fighting on the side of the PDP in putting pressure on President Buhari to finally assent to the electoral bill. The party also saluted the courage of PDP and other opposition members in the National Assembly for standing their ground on the passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill which among other things principally provided for the electronic transmission of election results directly from the polling units. The national publicity secretary of PDP, Hon Debo Ologunagba, said, “The PDP calls on Nigerians not to rest on their oars but to further strengthen their resolve by rallying themselves to take charge of their polling units and ensure that their votes are transparently counted and transmitted in the 2023 general elections.