But it is pertinent to recall that after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine voluntarily gave up the nuclear weapons in its territory in exchange for a guarantee of security by the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Russia. At that time, the country had the world’s third largest stock of nuclear weapons. It is easy to conjecture that Ukraine must be regretting that decision now because Russia would have thought twice before invading a nuclear-armed Ukraine. However, in deciding to violate the territorial integrity of Ukraine, Putin had also criticised the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) for expanding eastward since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991. He also voiced the paranoia that NATO enlisting nations on Russia’s borders represents a provocation, a threat to its national security. But the most annoying aspect of the arrogance of power as displayed by Putin is his argument that Ukraine, a sovereign nation created by the Ukrainian people themselves when they voted overwhelmingly for independence in a 1991 referendum, is part of Russia. In that referendum vote, 84 per cent of eligible voters went to the polls, and more than 90 per cent voted in favour of independence. So, for Putin to suggest that Ukraine was created by the Soviet Union was standing history on its head. Admitted that Ukraine was part of the defunct Soviet Union, but it went its own way when the empire collapsed after Perestroika and Glasnost. Observers of international affairs interpret what is going on between Russia and Ukraine as part of Putin’s obsession to want to build back a Russian empire and restore the control Russia, or the Soviet Union, had over Europe and Asia during the Cold War. Putin himself admitted this much when he lamented that the fall of the Soviet Union was the greatest catastrophe of the 20th century. But his ambition, for whatever it is worth, is completely contrary to the place where the rest of the world has arrived. Sadly, in our thinking, totalitarian leaders like Putin live in their own world and do as they please. In our considered opinion, the international community, especially the seven most developed economies, the so-called G7 countries of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan are to blame for the ordeal Ukraine is presently undergoing. After the collapse of the Soviet Union and with the assumption of office by Putin, they failed to interpret correctly the ascendancy of Russia. They watched as Russia expanded its military, amassing weapons of mass destruction to cold war era levels. Yet the alarm bell did not sound loud enough for them to take note or they were pre-occupied by other issues. As serious as matters are now, for them, it is still all talk and no action. It is the opinion of this newspaper that what happened in Chechnya and later the annexation of Crimea, a part of Ukraine, ought to have caused enough apprehension in appropriate quarters as to the plans of the Russian strongman for Eastern Europe especially those countries that he perceives as still part of the Soviet bloc. But curiously, in our view, it did not and Russia was sufficiently emboldened to go for Ukraine proper.  They naively relied heavily on diplomacy in their dealings with a man like Putin threatening sanctions which the Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelenskyy insisted will not be enough to deter the resolve of Putin. Even now, NATO Secretary General, Jens Stoltenberg, has ruled out the probability of the organisation sending in forces to help Ukraine just as he maintained that allies are imposing severe costs on Russia. Without outside help, media reports indicate that Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine, will fall in days. Should that happen, we are compelled to point out, that it will be a disaster for that beleaguered country because it will entail the overthrow of the democratically elected Zelenskyy and his government. With that, Putin would have achieved one of his aims which is to install a more pliant leader who will be loyal to Moscow. While the rest of the world, including the United Nations, continue with their meaningless rhetoric as far as the situation is concerned, Ukrainians are mobilising to defend their fatherland against unprovoked external aggression. That is the way to go. Even if Putin succeeds in over-running Ukraine, the fate that befell Russia in Afghanistan awaits him in Ukraine. The will and determination of the people of Ukraine shall prevail. There are precedents in recent history and this will not be different.