Edu, who stated this at the February 2022 Edition of the NCRIB Members’ Evening sponsored by African Alliance Insurance Plc, in Lagos on Tuesday, noted that, it is disheartening to note that an industry which had been contributing less than one per cent to the gross domestic product, in spite of its huge potentials, loses such whopping amount of money to fake vendors who contribute nothing to the growth of the nation. “It was recently reported that Nigeria Insurance Industry loses over N160 billion yearly to fake motor insurance racketeer.  Some of these fake racketeers have their offices in some local government secretariats across the nation, carrying out their unethical acts unabated. “Aside from loss of revenue and premium that should accrue to the industry, these criminals create for us a bad image. Most of the unattended claims in Motor Insurance are victims of fake certificates,” he pointed out. He stressed that, it is saddened to note that most motorists go about their daily businesses with certificate of moribund and deformed insurance companies, just because there is no proper enforcement, adding that, some of these insurance policies, flying around local government premises across the country,  are just putting money into people’s pocket. “I am certainly aware that the Nigerian Insurers Association(NIA) deployed technology to curb proliferation of fake certificates. But I am of the opinion that enforcement is still at low ebb. May I use this medium to appeal to Government to wade into the situation and curb the perpetrators,” he pleaded. While equally pleading to Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) to see this as a clarion call, he believes the agency can as well increase its enforcement strategies to include Insurance Certificate in such a way that any motorist without genuine motor insurance certificate should be made to face sanctions as stipulated in the law. Our economy continues to drag because we are not paying attention to the issue of insurance, he stressed. He, therefore, appreciated African Alliance Insurance Plc team for its unrelenting determination to further deepen relationship with registered insurance brokers, as evidenced by the resolve to host the event. Similarly, the managing director/CEO, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Mrs Joyce Ojemudia, while speaking on the claims profile of the life insurance firm, noted that, it is paramount to every insurer to pay claims as this is fundamental to insurers’ existence as a business. In 2021 business year, he said African Alliance paid claims exceeding N7.59billion to its customers, a substantial bulk of which were for annuity claims and the group life. This, she said, shows an increase of over N590 million claims payment in the prior year. “In January 2022, we have paid a total of N723.96m in claims.As earlier stated, this is a clear confirmation of our unchanging commitment to paying genuine claims. Our claims efforts have been helped by strong reinsurance treaties with top reinsurers as our partners,” she pointed out. On the firm’s recapitalisation plans, she stated that the company injected about N14.4 billion through assets conversion as at December 2020, which has indeed improved its shareholders fund considerably and increased its asset base. To her, “furthermore, the company will be increasing its capital base through right issues targeted at significant shareholders in addition to getting new investors to buy into the company. Business combination is our last resort in the event that the above plans are not adequate.” “Our self-service policy platform specifically for brokers as it concerns our Term Assurance product is up and running. We have also commissioned the design of a new core business application which comes with a wealth of benefits. “We will be able to speed up our efficiency and effectiveness in terms of service delivery to you our dear partners. This IT adoption will enhance collaboration with our stakeholders while it will significantly aid our digital footprints and support various remote policy buying capabilities,” he pointed out. BY ZAKA KHALIQ, Lagos The president, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers(NCRIB), Barrister Rotimi Edu, has said that the expected annual premium income of insurance industry is being crippled by losing a whopping N160 billion annually to fake motor insurance racketeers in the country. Edu, who stated this at the February 2022 Edition of the NCRIB Members’ Evening sponsored by African Alliance Insurance Plc, in Lagos on Tuesday, noted that, it is disheartening to note that an industry which had been contributing less than one per cent to the gross domestic product, in spite of its huge potentials, loses such whopping amount of money to fake vendors who contribute nothing to the growth of the nation. “It was recently reported that Nigeria Insurance Industry loses over N160 billion yearly to fake motor insurance racketeer.  Some of these fake racketeers have their offices in some local government secretariats across the nation, carrying out their unethical acts unabated. “Aside from loss of revenue and premium that should accrue to the industry, these criminals create for us a bad image. Most of the unattended claims in Motor Insurance are victims of fake certificates,” he pointed out. He stressed that, it is saddened to note that most motorists go about their daily businesses with certificate of moribund and deformed insurance companies, just because there is no proper enforcement, adding that, some of these insurance policies, flying around local government premises across the country,  are just putting money into people’s pocket. “I am certainly aware that the Nigerian Insurers Association(NIA) deployed technology to curb proliferation of fake certificates. But I am of the opinion that enforcement is still at low ebb. May I use this medium to appeal to Government to wade into the situation and curb the perpetrators,” he pleaded. While equally pleading to Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) to see this as a clarion call, he believes the agency can as well increase its enforcement strategies to include Insurance Certificate in such a way that any motorist without genuine motor insurance certificate should be made to face sanctions as stipulated in the law. Our economy continues to drag because we are not paying attention to the issue of insurance, he stressed. He, therefore, appreciated African Alliance Insurance Plc team for its unrelenting determination to further deepen relationship with registered insurance brokers, as evidenced by the resolve to host the event. Similarly, the managing director/CEO, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Mrs Joyce Ojemudia, while speaking on the claims profile of the life insurance firm, noted that, it is paramount to every insurer to pay claims as this is fundamental to insurers’ existence as a business. In 2021 business year, he said African Alliance paid claims exceeding N7.59billion to its customers, a substantial bulk of which were for annuity claims and the group life. This, she said, shows an increase of over N590 million claims payment in the prior year. “In January 2022, we have paid a total of N723.96m in claims.As earlier stated, this is a clear confirmation of our unchanging commitment to paying genuine claims. Our claims efforts have been helped by strong reinsurance treaties with top reinsurers as our partners,” she pointed out. On the firm’s recapitalisation plans, she stated that the company injected about N14.4 billion through assets conversion as at December 2020, which has indeed improved its shareholders fund considerably and increased its asset base. To her, “furthermore, the company will be increasing its capital base through right issues targeted at significant shareholders in addition to getting new investors to buy into the company. Business combination is our last resort in the event that the above plans are not adequate.” “Our self-service policy platform specifically for brokers as it concerns our Term Assurance product is up and running. We have also commissioned the design of a new core business application which comes with a wealth of benefits. “We will be able to speed up our efficiency and effectiveness in terms of service delivery to you our dear partners. This IT adoption will enhance collaboration with our stakeholders while it will significantly aid our digital footprints and support various remote policy buying capabilities,” he pointed out. 