Ahead of  February 26, Ogoja/Yala federal constituency  and Akpabuyo state constituency by-elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm over planned deployment of soldiers for the conduct of the by-elections. The PDP said the state as an entity has no power to deploy soldiers for elections stressing that it is only the military high command at the defence headquarters that has the right to deploy soldiers for any reason. PDP state chairman, Venatius Ikem raised the alarm while addressing journalists about rumours making the rounds  that the APC government has hatched a plan to deploy soldiers for the election. Ikem stated that the directive for deployment of soldiers for any critical assignment  can only come from the chief of army staff and  the political parties concerned will be adequately briefed on their operational order. He said, “There are legitimate ways you can deploy the army as well as illegal ways to intimidate voters. “That directive can only come from the Chief of Army Staff and if there are reasons to deploy the army it will be so stated. “We will also be briefed  on the operational order outside which you cannot deploy the army.” Ikem alleged that it was wrong for  the Cross River State governor to have allegedly met  with the commander, 13 Brigade, Nigerian Army Akim Barracks to solicit for deployment of soldiers for the by-elections. Ikem stressed that the PDP would do everything humanly possible to legitimately resist any such attempt as the army was not directly involved in elections but for the protection of the country’s territorial integrity. The PDP stressed that while members of their party  are playing by the rules of engagement,  the APC  government in power is doing  the contrary in order to  create an atmosphere where there will be a breach of security  so that they can use the apparatus of government to harrass and  intimidate the PDP in the contest. Ikem averred that his party  would  not allow any underhand tactics to undermine an election they are poised to win adding that the PDP has been working vigorously to ensure that victory is achieved. 