Old students of the Itire Community Secondary School in Surulere, Lagos State, have donated uniforms and sandals to over 100 students of the school as part of activities to mark their 5th reunion. They also held a career talk for the senior students to sensitise them on the need to shun divisive tendencies and face their studies. The 1995 Set led by assistant coordinator, Joke Abass, said the items were donated as part of give-back to their alma mater where the foundation of their careers and businesses were formed, adding that it was the fifth anniversary of their reunion. She disclosed that the items were donated by the members of the 1995 Set scattered across the world even as she explained it was not the first time as they had donated books, chairs, desks, and free coaching in the past. One of them, Dr Lukman Ajijola, a senior lecturer at the University of Lagos, told the students to jettison claims that western education is a scam and a mere waste of time, even as he reiterated that good behaviour and education helped to shape him and his school mates. He said, “shun ritualism and all that talk that school is a scam, no it is not. Your foundation today will determine how far your roots tomorrow. Hardwork does not kill, study hard and tomorrow you will stand to address younger people. Please shun crime and get-rich-quick syndrome, obey your teachers and your parents, and don’t bully other students.” Another alumnus, Friday Chigbu, an Accountant by profession, told the students that everything he learnt from the school helped to shape him into a responsible member of the society, even as he appealed to them to shun criminal vices and bullying. The Principals of the Junior and Senior sections of the school commended the old students for reaching out to their alma mater, promising that the staff and management will continue to uphold the tenets of good education. The gathering brought the ex-students of the 1995 Set from different parts of the country and the Alumni, thereafter, retired to a party where they shared life lessons.