Last Tuesday, February 22, 2022 was crucial for the All Progressive Congress (APC) ahead of its national convention. President Muhammadu Buhari and APC governors rose from a consultative meeting and finally laid to rest speculations about the zoning of the party’s national offices. The APC leaders announced the swapping of roles between the North and South, effectively stating that offices in the National Working Committee hitherto occupied by northerners in the last eight years, will shift to the south and vice versa. It was a welcomed development of sorts, especially as it doused tensions in some quarters over imminent disintegration of the governing party for an alleged inability of her leaders to agree on anything. But it is still some ways from Uhuru. So far, the challenge of how the party would micro-zone the chairmanship as well as arrive at a rancour-free consensus remains topical. Another fallout of the president and governors’ meeting is the strong indication that they may have settled for Senator Abdullahi Adamu, who served as chairman of the reconciliation committee, as the next chairman. This comes as Adamu had barely joined the contest for the top party position. Others in the race are former deputy national chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Saliu Mustapha, former governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Almakura, former governor of Borno State, Ali Modu-Sheriff and Senator representing Niger East District, Mohammed Sani-Musa. Others are Mohammed Saidu-Etsu; former ACN chairman in FCT, Sunny Moniedafe; former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari; former Bauchi State governor, Isa Yuguda, former Borno State governor, Kashim Shettima; former Gombe State governor, Danjuma Goje; and minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, George Akume. This speculation over Adamu’s candidacy has since attracted reactions from other aspirants, including Mustapha, Etsu and Musa who insisted that they remain in the race. If anything, these aspirants, who incidentally are from the same geopolitical region, North Central, as Adamu, have intensified their campaigns. However there is a larger concern for watchers of the party. There is a debate over the need for the APC to transform this accord into election-winning strategy by ensuring that the chairmanship position and other offices are alloted in such a way that the party will garner the most electoral benefit ahead of 2023. An APC chieftain, Abubakar Kago, where the party zones the national chairmanship position within the North is of utmost importance. “To my thinking, the most compelling criteria for the choice of an APC national chairman who comes from Northern Nigeria should be based on the following five factors: “Current strength of the APC in the State from which he or she will emerge and the strategic imperative of using the office to buy strength where the party is relatively weak. “The candidate’s leadership persona translated in terms of charisma, persuasiveness, acceptability within the party, capacity to rally members using party structures as well as in-depth knowledge of party processes and procedures. “The proven national influence and network of the individual, especially capacity to quickly feel the political pulse of a situation and respond constructively or of a constituency and reach across diverse political stakeholding/platforms for a resolution. “Cognate experience in high political leadership, with clear line of sight, ie, hindsight to recognise common pitfalls or advantages and evolve and political foresight to drive for success. “Strong mental and physical fitness for, among other reasons, going through the rigors of leading a campaign across the length and breadth of the country. “Once the above five factors are accounted for, and in order to ensure that no geopolitical zone is marginalised or excluded, or feels so, the APC must go further to align them with the political considerations that will play out in 2023, many of which are already very visible right now.” But there is more. Although the party appears to have zoned the chairmanship to the North Central a fresh argument is emerging over whether the party should have zoned the position to a geo-political area where the people are insistent on producing a president and not a party chairman. Those who share this view argue that parties send their national chairmanship position to the zone they want to exclude, abinitio, from the presidential race. It will be recalled that North Central stakeholders opposed the zoning of the national chairmanship of ruling political parties to them once it is the turn of the north while the other two geopolitical zones savor the two highest jobs. North Central Renaissance Movement (NCRM) had warned that it would withdraw the zone’s support from any party that dumps the chairmanship on them ahead of 2023. Conversely, there are also arguments that the party should zone the position to a state it does not control and a region it has to retain dominance ahead of 2023. Those who argue this point, say by ceding top position to such a state, APC will shore up her political weight in that state for coming elections. In the 19 Northern states, the APC has 14, while People Democratic Party (PDP) has five. As such in the North West, Sokoto would serve. In North Central which consists of six states, five of which are in the firm grip of APC, Benue, being the only PDP-controlled state would serve, even though the PDP has already picked its national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, from the state. In the North East, there are six states with APC and PDP having three each. APC has Borno, Yobe, and Gombe, while PDP has Taraba, Adamawa and Bauchi. For supporters of this debate, perhaps this zone might be more strategic for the APC to pick its national chairman. However, a party source who supports this debate, said Adamawa could be ruled out because of the towering influence of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar who is poised to contest for president under the PDP. The source however noted that the influence of the secretary to the government of the Federation Boss Mustapha, who hails from the state would shore up the party’s electoral value in the state and offset APC’s lack of the governorship in the state. In Taraba, as much as the chairman could come from there, they argue that PDP has shown enormous influence on the state since the Fourth Republic. But it would seem like there is more at stake in Bauchi than in Taraba for the APC. In the 2019 presidential elections, Taraba gave the APC 324,906 and the PDP 374,743, not an earth-shaking margin. On the other hand, Bauchi delivered 798,428 votes to the APC and a measly 209,313 to the PDP. Kago said, “This indicates that the APC has a golden vein of support among the populace in Bauchi that she can tap into for 2023 if we mine with the tool of a local boy who is widely acceptable by his people, plus the APC is indeed fortunate to have at least two persons who fit the profile perfectly. “My opinion and advice to the APC is that the former Governor of Bauchi State, Isa Yuguda would be the perfect candidate for a consensus national chairman of the APC from the North. He has won two gubernatorial elections for himself in Bauchi State, he was a striker in the APC’s line up for the 2019 presidential election and helped to beat the incumbent governor and the PDP silly in that contest as illustrated in the figures above. “He is also that rare breed of crossover politicians who moves seamlessly between the elites and the grassroots and is trusted well enough by both. Isa is also a son-in-law to the powerful Yar’Adua dynasty of Katsina State, another massive voting bloc for the APC which gave the party 1,232,133 in 2019 and only 308,056 to the PDP.” He also suggested former Speaker of the House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara for the top seat. “While in Office, he presided over strong political stakeholders from several at least 360 constituencies in Nigeria. Some of them are currently serving in the same House, the Senate, or in some other high capacity at party or national levels. He has the capacity, reach and network to bring more people to vote for APC. His brief stint in the PDP after leaving office before decamping back to the APC is a minus on his Curriculum Vitae but it could be a plus too, as he can reach across party lines to friends in the opposition to help him in any office, including as national chairman of the APC.” But the other aspirants in the race have been making strong inroads in the past few weeks as they have keeping the conversation on how to make the party better going.