The nightclub and entertainment entrepreneur is an alumnus of the University of Ibadan where he bagged B.Sc Sociology in 2006. Abolore has always have a thing for business and his success as a resourceful individual is an inkling about his personality. Jaji Abolore is the owner of The Booth Niteclub, comprising of Booth Champagne Bar, Room 130 bar and Booth Liquor Store and a leading nightlife player in the Johannesburg Metropolitan area of Sandton. The manner Jaji Abolore has been able to manage his chain of businesses and infusing fresh ideas for greater success in a country that is not of his birth, is a case study. Though far from home, Nigeria is always close to his heart. Jaji Abolore’s nightclub has featured international acts across Africa, particularly some of the West Africa’s Afrobeats acts such as Kizz Daniel, Seun Kuti and Mr P of P-Square. Jaji Abolore’s foray into business began back in the day in Nigeria with a two-year stint as managing director of Jars Nigeria Enterprises, a company that imported and exported wine and beverages. Jaji Abolore took the experience to South Africa and at the onset of his business journey far away, he floated Highland Movers, a firm in Midrand, Gauteng, which is also into importing and exporting, transportation and storage, among other things. Jaji Abolore’s uncommon feats have not gone unrecognised. The Booth Night Club was given a special recognition as the first nightclub to organise a successful Pan African outdoor music festival, the BoothFest, which he pioneered in 2018. Also, in the same year, Jaji Abolore birthed the BoothFest, Joburg Viewers’ Choice Awards (Best of Jozi) recognised his nightclub located in the heart of Sandton, as the 2018 Best Club in Johannesburg, and was also voted the Best Night Club by The Voice Magazine in the same year. The bar owner, who clocked another year on January 10, 2022, is however, not resting on his laurels. Jaji Abolore is hinting a ‘bigger fish’, saying that “this year, we are moving to the next level and winning more awards.” Just recently, Jaji Abolore visited the Paris home of top French cognac brand Martel, the highly revered and loved cognac that tastes so good in the mouth of distinct personalities. Posting several pictures of himself in the factory where the distinctly unique Martel cognac is brewed, Jaji Abolore proudly wrote on his official instagram page, “my Martel cognac experience #martel #booth liquor.” Recall that top Nigerian singer, Davido, also visited Martel cognac headquarters in Paris few days ago and like Jaji Abolore did, Davido splashed pictures of his visit to Martel on his verified social media pages.