He went about the activities of the day, full of life. But by nightfall, when most students had begun to retire to bed, Ramadan as he is fondly called, had his life almost snuffed out by his senior colleague. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that a senior colleague, from SS2 Class had sent Ramadan on an errand, but he refused to go. That fateful night, the senior colleague then picked him up and took him to a lonely place and used a razor blade to severely cut his neck, injuring most of his artery nerves and trachea. His attacker, who was later identified as Ahmad Umar Goni, left the victim to die with his body soaked in blood. But after some minutes, Jubril struggled and found his way to the principal’s office, before he finally broke down and became unconscious. Jubril was rushed to the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH) as he laid critical at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), the perpetrator, who was alleged to be indoctrinated on psychotropic substances, was subsequently arrested and handed over to police for further investigations. A family member of the victim, who spoke with LEADERSHIP Weekend on condition of anonymity, noted that the case of Jubril had effectively been decriminalised as a result of a collapse in prosecutions that has allowed many offenders to escape justice and to go on to reoffend in the knowledge that they are highly unlikely to be held accountable. He said for the fact that their acts of violence are normalised, accepted or excused, give a feeling of power and impunity to these individuals and encourages such recurrent shameful predatory behaviour. This support system, the family member of Jubril said, must be annihilated at all cost and in no uncertain terms. “This is not the first case of armed violence in the college, there are several other cases relating to sexual abuse and armed violence, but the school management had swept them under the carpet. This is likely to mean we are creating more victims as a result of our failure to act. “This can result in far-reaching and catastrophic consequences on the physical and mental state of any child. Because It is, amongst others, responsible for a decrease of academic performance and a high proportion of school dropouts, denying its victims the very right to education,” he said. He therefore appealed to Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum, the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Legal Aid Council and other reputable organisations and individuals to seek redress for Ramadan as his condition remained critical at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital. Some students of the school, who also spoke on the issue, claimed they were told by the management that Jubril attempted to commit suicide because he hated being a boarder. One of the students, who craved anonymity, said, “They told us that he tried to kill himself with a razor blade by cutting himself. But we later learnt that it was one of our seniors who wounded him for refusing his errand. “We don’t know his present condition. I hope he is not dead?” he said. A senior staff of the college, who also craved anonymity, said: “On the same day, a delegation from the Borno State Ministry of Education visited the college when the director departed to Damaturu, Yobe State, leaving his principals behind; they were told that the principals were not on site. The source added that the suspect committed the act under the influence of drugs which were being secretly sold to students by a senior managing officer of the Junior Secondary School Section. According to him, the college management covered numerous cases of misconducts perpetrated by the students and some of the staff members without the knowledge of the parents, even though, the Parent and Teacher Association (PTA) was scrapped for years, following mass protest over increment and change of school uniforms by the management. In a swift reaction to media reports on the incident, the principal, Mr Kashim Ibrahim Abdullahi, through a press statement signed and issued on the 22nd February, 2022, said the suspect, Ahmad Umar Goni, an SS2 student for an unknown reason partially cut the throat of one student, Jubril Sadi Mato of pre- junior secondary school. The statement added that the matter was immediately reported to the principal of the junior secondary school who rushed the victim to Borno State Specialist Hospital from where they were referred to the trauma centre of the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH), where Jubril has been receiving medical attention, adding that staff of the college queued up to donate blood for the victim and the school fully took financial responsibility. The principal said according to the provision of the law of the land, the college has no right to treat crime cases of such magnitude and thus handed the culprit over to the police a few hours after the incident for further investigation. The principal said:” The management of Elkanemi College of Islamic Theology, Maiduguri issued this press statement regarding an incident that took place in the college on Saturday night, 15th January, 2022 at about 10: 05pm, immediately after prep. “One student Ahmad Umar Goni of SS2A for an unknown reason partially cut the throat of one student, Jubril Sadi Mato of Pre-JSS. “Unfortunately, some media houses, individuals as well as other critics of the college without any proof or verifiable evidence went on spreading false information when the college itself is still waiting for the police to conclude their investigation. “Therefore, the management of the college denounces all these conspiracies and fake news about the incident. For instance, several allegations were made against the college of allegedly conniving with the parents of the culprit and the guardian of the victim to conceal the fact about the incident. “Contrarily, the testimonies of both the parents in their media interactions debunked these allegations which were meant to dent the image of the college.  It is also noteworthy to mention that such an incident has never occurred in the 47-year history of the college. “Most importantly, Jubril is now getting better by Allah’s grace. The management of the college, its entire staff and students sincerely sympathise with the family of the victim and earnestly pray for his full recovery. “ The ministerial emergency committee for the investigation of attempted homicide at Elkanemi College of Islamic Theology, Maiduguri was upgraded to state committee by the Zulum administration. The committee was approved by Borno State Governor Babagana Umara Zulum on 25th January, 2022, to investigate the reported attack on a pre-JSS student, Jibril Sadi Mato, by a senior student on 15th January, 2022. The setting up of the committee was contained in a statement signed by the secretary to the state government (SSG), Alhaji Usman Jidda Shuwa. Shuwa stated that the committee was headed by the acting permanent secretary and solicitor-general of the Borno State Ministry of Justice, Abdullahi Husaini Izge, while it has directors of schools, ministry of education, representatives of civil society organisation, chairman of Borno State Parent and Teacher Association (PTA), representatives of Department of  State Services (DSS),and the state police command, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) as well as the secretary of Cabinet Affairs, Governor’s Office, among others. The statement added that the committee will be inaugurated by the state deputy governor, Umar Usman Kadafur, at his office on Wednesday, 26th January, 2022. Meanwhile, family members of the victim have decried the inability of the committee to make its findings public since over three weeks after the incident. The family members through a statement issued by their lawyer wondered why no member of the family was represented in the committee. A cousin of Jubril Sadi Mato, Aisha Mato, while expressing worry over the continued delay in addressing the cause of the incident to our correspondent, said the victim has remained at home since he was discharged from the hospital and that the injuries which was not properly handled by UMTH is currently developing complications hence they want to take Jubril to an Egyptian hospital for further treatment. She regretted that neither the school management nor the state government has reached out to them since their son was discharged from the intensive care unit of UMTH a fortnight ago despite countless efforts to ascertain the true situation that led to their son being cut on the neck. She said: “Ramadan (Jubril’s pet name) has not overcome the trauma of that incident. Since he was discharged from the hospital, he has refused to return to school or even agree to go to another school despite our efforts to get him enrolled in a new school. He keeps saying he does not want to go to school again because he will be killed. “And lately, the unhealed injury has developed complications with his stomach swollen with constant foaming from his mouth. This is why we want to take him to a hospital in Egypt for proper medical attention. “We have been waiting for the state government to tell us the findings of their investigations but up to this moment, they have not said anything to us. The school management too has kept silent. We are at the crossroads at the moment because we don’t even know what is happening. “It seems there is a conspiracy to sweep the matter under the carpet but we will not allow that to happen. We actually heard the rumour that the school management attempted to hide the incident from getting to the public space but we did not believe it, but with what is happening now, we tend to give credence to that rumour. But we will pursue this matter to a logical conclusion because we want justice for our son,” the cousin said. Corroborating Aisha Mato, another cousin of Jubril, Adam Mato, said the victim, who has suddenly developed complications, needs further and urgent treatment in a better hospital. He appealed to the state government and the school management to join the family and restore the health of Jubril whom he said is in urgent need of medical attention. “The management of the school is not even following up to know the condition of the boy. They have been nonchalant about the issue. It is very sad,” he lamented. He claimed that UMTH had not been helpful by refusing them a referral letter that would assist the new hospital to understand the kind of treatment and where it stopped on the boy. He said the UMTH management has been dribbling them whenever the request is made by the family. But a credible source in UMTH who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said there is no way the hospital can give them a referral letter after the boy had been discharged from the hospital. The source said unless they bring him back on admission to be discharged with referral, the request won’t be granted.