The First Lady of the of Nigeria, Aisha Buhari   Senate Committee on Constitution Review. The president’s wife was accompanied by the minister of women affairs, Pauline Tallen, the minister of finance, Zainab Ahmed and a delegation of Nigerian women. Similarly, the First Lady, was at the House of Representatives during its plenary session to witness the laying of the 68 reports of the Special Adhoc Committee on the Review of the 1999 constitution. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, immediately after referring a bill for an Act to Amend the Federal High Court Act Cap F134 to the Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, suspended Rule 12(1) – Privileges of the Floor – and invoked Rule 1(b) to admit the First Lady and her delegation into the chamber at exactly 11:58am. The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege (APC, Delta Central), Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Alteration to the Provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, laid the report at 12:06pm. Lawan, in a short remark after the report was laid, said the visit by the First Lady was to show support for a bill to have more female parliamentarians at the federal and state legislatures. The Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila who received the First Lady said she was visiting in her capacity as a woman to show support for the amendment in areas that promoted the welfare of women.  The speaker expressed appreciation to Mrs Buhari for various efforts to improve the welfare of women. One of the proposed 1999 constitution amendments is to create 111 seats for women in the parliament. In other words, two-seat from each state in the House of Representatives, one for each state in the senate with the inclusion of FCT.  After the laying of the 68 reports of the 1999 constitution amendment at the plenary by the chairman of the Adhoc Committee, Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris, the speaker further advised members to ensure their presence at plenary next week for the consideration of the submitted report of the constitution amendment.  “Thank you for a job well done. Let us all be here on Wednesday to vote on these clauses. Everybody needs to be here otherwise we would not get our two-thirds,” he said.  Earlier, the leader of the House, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, moved a motion that the rules be suspended to welcome the wife of the President during plenary.  She was ushered into the chamber at about 12.40 pm by the Chief Whip Mohammed Monguno and Deputy Whip, Nkiru Onyejiocha.