Even toddlers still in their diapers will attest to the fact that the two major political parties, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are both nightmares Nigerians are fighting hard to shake off. Without doubt and based on available records, they are a huge source of embarrassment to all that democracy stands for. The PDP, a once self-acclaimed largest political party in Africa that had plans to rule for 60 years, in 16 years, took Nigerians for granted and rode rough shod on their sensibilities until they were shoved aside like disused rags by an amalgam of strange, broom-clutching bedfellows, APC, who lack the basic skills of house sweeping. History will be kinder to PDP because it was part of a political movement put together to force the military out of governance. Nigerians played along in the false hope that experience was the best teacher. Regrettably, politicians of the period, obviously, did not learn enough to justify the confidence reposed in them by the electorate. On the part of the APC, it held a lot of promise on the basis of which it was able to unseat an incumbent government. The party came into office with a lot of goodwill at home and even internationally. All that was squandered in no time leaving Nigerians bewildered and almost on the verge of losing confidence in democracy as a system of governance that, in better organised climes, guarantees a good life for the people who give it life in the first place. In the last six years that the party has been on the saddle, Nigerians are seeking answers to the question of what went wrong. But the disappointments the nation feels about what these two political parties turned out to be, in the considered opinion of this newspaper, cannot and will not, by any stretch of the imagination, justify the concoction some disgruntled politicians in desperate lust for power and relevance are about to serve the people yet again. Telling it straight, Nigerians do not need a National Movement, or the so called Third Force. As we take a cursory look at the list of the promoters of this amorphous committee of fortune seekers, what we see is the same old names that are the problem with Nigeria. It calls to mind the Biblical assertion of old wine in new wine skin. The assurance of sustainability is suspect, if not absent. In our opinion, there are a multiplicity of political parties already in existence that the people can latch on to, if they desire, consciously, to call the bluff of both the APC and PDP. All Nigerians need at this point in time is to decide not to be fooled again by the same power mongers who are ever ready to take undue advantage of their gullibility. The truth as perceived by this newspaper is that the political class is always getting away with its inanities because the people allow it. An electorate that is ready to sale its birth right for a mess of porridge cannot complain too much when those rights are trampled upon dispassionately. People who are ready to sacrifice the future of their children on the altar of geo-political affiliations, religious sentiments and cultural idiocies, have themselves to blame when their expectations are thrown back at them unfulfilled.  Youths that prefer to be thugs and ballot box snatchers can only be fed with leftovers, if at all. The demography of Nigeria indicates a dominance of the youth. Sadly, in our view, this critical segment of the population, active and virile, conduct themselves in a manner that belies the glorious precedence set by their forebears in the first republic- an era that produced Matthew Mbu as minister at 24; Maitama Sule, Nigeria’s first Petroleum minister at 29; Richard Akinjide, Minister of Education at 27 or even General Yakubu Gowon, a military head of state at 33. If, indeed, there is need for a third force, it should be the arousal of the consciousness of this segment of the population and direct same to levels that accord with a determination to turn the fortunes of the nation for the better. And they do not need to set up a separate structure that will soon be hijacked by the monied class and end up frustrating its noble ideas and ideals. The third force that the nation needs is a massive voter education of the teeming jobless youths to make them aware of their plight, inherent potentials and put them in a position to ask incisive questions bordering on national issues and demand concise and precise answers. Nigeria needs a third force of youths who will agree with Shakespeare that the “fault is not in our stars but in ourselves that we are underlings”. The third force the nation needs is a team of young Turks, those former President Olusegun Obasanjo described as “rebels” who will challenge the status quo in a radical manner and shake up the polity positively. Nigeria does not need the services of a spent and recycled third force or national movement in search of lost glory and bereft of actionable ideas urgently required to nudge the system in the right direction.   