As of today, not a single politician has either publicly indicated interest for the coveted seat. In most states, individuals and groups have already started preparing grounds, making deliberate consultations and activities preparatory to choosing the next governor. This is more so that the state governor, Muhammad Badaru Abubakar, is serving his second and final term in office, a situation that ought to have inspired a good number of aspirants to begin scheming by now. However, governorship candidates of the two major parties in the state, APC and PDP, would largely be determined by the two political gladiators in both parties; former governor Alhaji Sule Lamido (PDP) and the incumbent governor, Abubakar (APC). Checks by LEADERSHIP reveal that these two gladiators are still the most influential figures in the party as they still wield the political mechanisms to determine who will be the flagbearer of their parties for 2023. As such, pundits say that the unusual political silence in the state is due to a seeming political culture where incumbents or influential political figures single-handedly pick their successors in the state. Lamido, a founding father of the PDP, has largely influenced how party governorship candidates emerged since the return of democracy in 1999. Perhaps that explains the silence in the party as party members await his next move ahead of 2023. Interestingly, in PDP which is the major opposition party in the state, party members also seem reluctant to indicate interest to reclaim the governorship seat their party lost to APC during 2015 general election. But findings reveal that the hesitancy within PDP might not be far from a speculation that Lamido might endorse his son, Mustapha, for the top seat in the state. Recently, some PDP chieftains in Jigawa State called on Mustapha Sule Lamido to join the governorship race in 2023 on the party’s platform. Mustapha had contested for a senatorial seat in the 2019 general elections. The group known as Forum of Former Local Government Chairmen made the demand in a communique issued after its extraordinary meeting held in the ancient city of Gumel in the northwest state. Reading the communiqué, the secretary of the forum and a former chairman of Yankwashi LGA, Musa Abdullahi Karkarna, said 22 out of the 27 local government chairmen who served under the PDP attended the meeting and agreed on the resolution. “We are calling on this intellectual youth and gentleman in the person of Mustapha Lamido to come out and contest for the gubernatorial ticket of our great party PDP for a rescue mission,” they said. Some watchers believe that those projecting Lamido junior are close to the former governor. The argument among those promoting Mustapha is that Lamido has done so much for others throughout his political career and it is now time to pay him back and elect his biological child as the next governor of the state. Some observers allude that the former governor’s silence on endorsement smacks of a tacit approval of their action, which could pass for a clear message to all other contenders to stay off. It goes without saying that Lamido and the son have total control of the party structure and will determine who flies its ticket even if it eventually isn’t the son. For the ruling APC, many believe that party members are not willing to show interest for the coveted seat for fear of the backslash it might cause them, particularly, in their relationship with the incumbent governor. Also, as governor, Badaru is the party leader in the state and he has total control over the party structures. So whoever wants to get the party ticket must remain loyal and wait for his directives. Meanwhile, from 2007 to 2015 history has shown that all the people that indicated interest in their party governorship ticket were denied the opportunity by the serving governors, while another person was instead anointed and enforced to the party by the power of incumbency. Nevertheless the governor isn’t going to have it smooth as some APC members in the state, under the aegis of APC Stakeholders Forum, had petitioned the national leadership of the ruling APC. The group alleged that the state governor, Muhammadu Badaru Abubakar is ‘terrorising them’. The stakeholders had, in the petition, signed by six leaders of the group, comprising Sani Ibrahim Taura, Barrister Hafizu Abubakar, Bala Idi Kazaure, Mutari Garba Garki and Saifullahi Muhammad Mudasshir, accused governor Badaru Abubakar of “singlehandedly championing the congresses that produced consensus nomination of Aminu Sani Gumel as chairman of APC in Jigawa state, alongside 35 other executive council members. “Reference to the petition written dated 30th of October, 2021 and submitted to your good office; as stakeholders that participated actively in building APC in Jigawa state, we write to remind and bring the attention of your good office, the need to do justice to the crises bedevilling the APC in the state. “The leadership of APC in Jigawa state has been terrorized by Governor Muhammadu Badaru Abubakar Badaru who singlehandedly championed the congresses that produced consensus nomination of Sani Gumel as chairman APC Jigawa State alongside 35 other Executive Council (EXCO) members,” the petition read partly. The APC members had also demanded cancellation of the party’s congresses recently held in the state. How far their agitation can go is another matter. For other opposition parties, there is a general consensus that they lack both the resources and popularity to start hitting the politics in the state. Like they have done in the past, they are waiting for the major players to start before they follow suit. It is therefore not surprising that nobody is yet to indicate his interest to contest for any party’s gubernatorial ticket outside the ruling APC and its main opposition, the PDP in the state. Reacting to the political scenario in PDP with regards to the gubernatorial ticket, the deputy state chairman of the party in Jigawa North East, Hon Ali Diginsa, said the ticket is open for every eligible member of the party to contest. “The ticket is open to every eligible member of our great party to contest. We can not infringe on anybody’s franchise.” Diginsa insisted that no party chieftain has stopped anybody from indicating his interest. He noted that no group has also been stopped to come out and declared their support to any eligible party member as in the case of Mustapha Sule Lamido who was endorsed for the gubernatorial ticket by a group of former local government chairmen who served between 2007-2015 under Peoples Democratic Party in the state. Reacting also to the situation in APC, state chairman of party, Hon Aminu Ahmed Gumel, denied that there is no political silence in the party. Gumel insisted that many people have indicated interest to contest the governorship seat even as some of them unofficially informed him about their aspiration. According to him,”It is a matter of time to know them, every eligible party member is free to contest any position. “We will provide an enabling environment for internal democracy and fair play. We in APC have no history of nepotism or imposing candidates against the popular wish and we will never allow anything that may undermine the principles of democracy to happen in our party,” he said. As it stands, the expectation is that whoever emerges in 2023 has to be able to surpass the records set by Governor Badaru in terms of executing developmental projects and programs in the state. But the tasks before aspirants are clear as they would be taking over one of the poorest states in the entire federation; with high rate of maternal/child mortality, childhood stunting from malnutrition and low literacy level as classified by the National Data Health Survey in 2020.