The sterling performances at Institute Francaise du Nigeria in Abuja will not be forgotten in a hurry. Jazz musician, Duro Ikujenyo and his band, the Age of Aquarius Band, serenaded the audience with great music and afrobeat tunes reminiscent of the legendary late Fela Kuti. Held last Friday in commemoration of the annual World Music Day, the event had a potpourri of musicians that are proven and tested in their own rights. The event kicked -off on a good note with sultry Michelle Tchacldo, who sang ‘African Unite’ and Favourite thrilled with a popular tune, ‘Je t’aime’. Others like Zaitc & Leon, ThankGod, Fred Williams and Zainab Sule who performed with dexterity with her guitar. Not many were aware that the France Ambassador to Nigeria, Amb Emmanuelle Blatmann, was among the dignitaries that graced the event. Amb BLATMANN was accompanied by Christelle Folly, the French Cultural Attache to the Ambassador of France to Nigeria and Lucas Bonheur. The director of French Institute, Monsieur Rafael Pont appreciated all the dignitaries and guests who came to celebrate 41 anniversary of World Music Day, saying that music is a universal language. He commended the ambassador for taking time out from her busy schedule to grace the historic occasion, and also entertained with his rare musical offering. The main attraction of the concert, dynamic musician, songwriter and recording artiste, Duro Ikujenyo and his seven-piece band, Age of Aquarius, entertained with different songs and got the audience to dance. Duro who had in his kitty over 35 years experience in music industry and a pianist of late Fela Kuti, did a theme song for World Music Day, composed by Duro. The band with a trumpeter and saxophonist and others, performed the timeless Fela’s ‘ Water No get enemy’ and songs from his latest album titled ‘Bkack and White Oha’ to the wild applause of the audience. Mr Ikujenyo spoke about the power of music and how it could galvanize changed and make the world a better place. Indeed the audience had an awesome experience as the concert ended with the Age of Aquarius band performing for over an hour. Earlier, Seth wowed the crowd with reggae tunes and sang beautifully Bob Marley’s ‘Redemption Song’ and ‘It’s gonna be alright’. Isomers and oerforming poet and singer, Ruth Mahogany who played with a guitar., probed that Nigeria has got talents and creatives that ought to be developed.    