 In a letter dated April 19 and signed by the president/chairman of Council, Bisi Adeyemi, the appointment of Dada takes immediate effect.  Other members of the committee include; Mrs Banke Meshida Lawal of BMPro Makeup Group, serving as the vice-chairman; Mrs Atinuke Olashore of PJK Nigeria Limited; Mr Olafemi Olaniyan of Collageo Communications Limited; Mr Joseph Edgar, Duke of Shomolu; Mathew Adigolo of Pureview photography; Mrs Bisi Sotunde of Busy Bee Events and Ms Kiki Okewale of KO by Kikiokewale as members.  The letter reads partly, “I look forward to your acceptance of this responsibility as it would afford the Chamber the opportunity to benefit from your wealth of experience, which I hope you will make available by your regular attendance at Committee meetings.”  According to the President of the Chamber, Bisi Adeyemi, terms of reference for the creative and cultural sectoral group include encouraging and creating a platform for collaboration amongst members of the group, fostering the growth of member organizations as well as generating B2B opportunities, organizing programs and events to showcase the diversity and robustness of the Creatives Sector. In this regard, organize an annual “NBCC Creatives and Culture Day.”  Others include reviewing the impact of government policies on the Creative and Cultural Sector and working with the Advocacy Committee to engage policymakers and enlighten members as appropriate, preparing position papers to support the Chamber’s interface with private and public sector organizations and Providing support to the Program Committee and other Committees in generating creative content for the Chamber’s program and events among others.  The Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce is the foremost bilateral Chamber in Nigeria to promote trade and investment between Nigeria and Britain since its establishment in 1977. The Chamber was set up to promote and develop Anglo-Nigeria trade relations, continually create value for its members and facilitate business-to-business relationships.  With a membership strength of 300 members whose total net worth is about N200 trillion from all sectors of the economy, made up of Nigerians and Britons, the Chamber is constantly developing a network of local branches in other parts of the country and has an NBCC-UK office presence. The Chamber also promotes Nigerian export to the United Kingdom (UK) and the inflow of Capital and Investment into Nigeria.