Second place Plateau United will be looking to seal the Champions League spot when they face 12th place Lobi Stars. Plateau United were beaten by Akwa United 2-1, last time out and Rivers United were crowned Champions. Lobi Stars on the other hand were triumphant against Dakkada FC 1-0 and will be looking for a win to cement their place in the NPFL. MFM will go to the match on the back of a 2-1 loss to Shooting Stars while opponents Niger Tornadoes smashed Kwara United 4-0 last time out. This fixture between MFM and Niger Tornadoes is a true definition of a relegation 6 pointer, if MFM drop points at home to Niger Tornadoes, they will be officially relegated and if Niger Tornadoes loose to MFM, it blows the battle for survival wide open. Champions Rivers United will be looking to defeat Kano Pillars as they will lift the trophy today at home. Kano Pillars will want to capitalize on the fact that Rivers United have won the league and are on cruise mode as we saw last week when Nassawara United beat them 2-1. Kano Pillars who are on 13th place, will be looking for a win to boost their survival hopes after a win over Enugu Rangers. 6th place Kwara United will do battle with 10th place Nassawara United. Kwara United who are on 52 points will be looking for all three points against Nassawara United in 10th to battle for continental football while Nassawara United will be looking to cement their place in the NPFL next season with a win. 3rd place Remo Stars will be feeling sour due to the manner of their 3-2 defeat to Kastina United and will be facing fellow rivals Enyimba. Enyimba who are in 5th place are separated from Remo Stars with just one point and this match is a huge continental 6 pointer for both teams involved. Enyimba will have to do a lot better than last time out against Heartland were they drew 0-0 if they are to get all three points. 11th place Wikki Tourists will face former NPFL champions Akwa United. Akwa United who are on 8th are just two points(51) behind 3rd place(53) and will so much love a win against Wikki Tourists as they will be hoping to play continental football next season. Wikki Tourists are in the relegation scrap and will be looking for a win against Akwa United to distance themselves from the drop zone, they are on 46 points in 11th position.    