 He stated this while disclosing that there is a plot to replace his name with that of another person who lost primary in another party
Aliyu said he will not hesitate to challenge such action at any level.  In a personally signed statement, he said, “I wish to express my candid opinion against the injustice and the wicked action by our party and the NNPP leadership both at the national and the state level.  “It would be recalled that we conducted primaries in Kaduna state like other states across the federation and God in his infinite mercy granted me victory as the only candidate that contested for the Federal House of Representatives to represent Gabasawa/Doka Federal constituemcy and I emerged the winner with all hope to represent the party at the coming general elections in 2023.  “To our great dismay, last night, I received several telephone calls and I was then informed of the nefarious decision of some elements from Abuja that I should be replaced by one Shehu ABG who contested for same position in Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and lost at the Primaries and just decamped to our party”. He emphasised that Shehu ABG only recently decambed to the NNPP for the purpose of getting the party ticket, stressing that they have been in the party for almost two years now, wondering why someone who lost primary election in another party is now being imposed on him as the party flag bearer of the party for the position he won the primary election. He said, “This is against the interests of our party loyalists and the decision is against the rule of law and is capable of frustrating party members to engage in anti party if not checked. “At this point I want to reaffirm my position as the legitimate party flag bearer for Gabasawa/Doka Federal Constituency of Kaduna State and that I have not resigned my position. I also want Nigerians to know that the action is a grand conspiracy to replace legitimate flag bearers with those who lost in other political parties. “Therefore, I will use both political, legal and other measures to seek redress and to avoid the action. I will not allow Injustice to prevail” he stressed.