The executive chairman of Biase local government council in Cross River State, Hon. (Chief) Ada Charles Egwu, has flagged off a five-day free medical outreach for women, youth, aged and vulnerable in the local government area. Hon. Egwu flagged off the event at the Biase LGA secretariat on Monday. Speaking at the event, Hon. Egwu said that the event was part of her modest decision to give priority to the health needs of her people and help them access free medical treatment at this challenging times when people can barely offset their medical bills. She noted that ‘health is wealth’ and a foundation for economic growth and development of any society. “It’s because of the priority I give to the health needs of my people, that I had organised similar outreaches in the past, renovated as well as equipped several primary health centres across the LGA. “I will not relent in my genuine efforts to continue to deliver dividends of democracy beyond the healthiness of my people,” she assured. Speaking earlier, the lead consultant of the project, Dr. Eze Chukwu, said the Free Medical Outreach was in conjunction with Biase Local Government Council and USAID, and is expected to counsel and create awareness on health matters, and healthy living as well as test and treat ailments such as Tuberculosis, Malaria, blood sugar level, Hepatitis B, blood pressure and HIV, among others, to over 4,000 beneficiaries. He further remarked that beneficiaries will get free diagnostic services, drugs and treatment and chronic cases will be referred to specialist hospitals or health professionals for proper management. “I must sincerely commend the Executive Chairman of Biase Local Government Area, Hon. Ada Charles for her humanitarian disposition and passionate desire to impact lives and promote the wellness of her people,” the lead consultant stated. In a goodwill message, the paramount ruler and chairman of Biase Traditional Rulers Council, HRM Apostle (Onun) Nicholas Odum, lauded the first female executive chairman of Biase LGA for her consistent empowerment of her people and the lives she is impacting through her visionary and people-oriented programmes. He called on indigenes and residents to take advantage of the opportunity, whe described as rare, to get tested and treated at no cost. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Comfort Ogban, expressed satisfaction with the process and commended the council chairman for the intervention which will save the lives of many and other numerous people-oriented programmes embarked upon by her administration. Another beneficiary, Egbe Ikwa, said: “Without stress or cash, I was tested and given medications, all thanks to our pragmatic and passionate chairman for this gesturel” The highpoint of the event was testing/screening of the executive chairman herself, the paramount ruler and chairman of Biase LGA traditional rulers council as well as dignitaries who graced the occasion among whom were the vice chairman of Biase Local Government Council, Hon. Oyono Ekpe, Leader of Biase Legislative Assembly, Hon. Charles Eko ably represented by the Majority Leader of the House and Councillor representing Ikun/Etono Ward, Hon. Ibitham Onesu, and other Councillors across the wards as well as Secretary of Council, Mr. Daniel Enang. Others include; PHC Coordinator Biase LGA, HOLGA, Royal Fathers, Council appointees, women and youth, among others. The outreach which commenced on Monday July 18, 2022 will last till Friday July 22, 2022.