Lily Portia Pramang Gyamfi better known by her stage name Lily Portia, is set to take the gospel music industry by storm with the release of an album titled: ‘Your Glory’. Her brand of music and unique lifestyle, which over the years have set her apart as a force to be reckoned with globally as she is known to give her best in all she does. With the new album, Lily Portia has indeed come out ready to wax the gospel music scene like never before. She continually keeps pushing and working tirelessly to become the best version of herself. Lily Portia had her secondary education at Afua Kobi Ampem Girls in the Ashanti Region of Ghana, and her tertiary education at Accra Technical University, Ghana. For the fast-rising artist, pursuing her God-given musical talent, from childhood, she said her topmost priority was the Ministry of Reconciliation. The singer shot into fame with her debut single ‘Jesus Reigns’ after getting endorsed by media maven, Agyemang Prempeh of Power Fm, Dr. Cann of Happy Fm, Dan Lartey, Franky 5 of Hitz Fm, and ace music producer Fred Kyei Mensah. She sustained her mileage with subsequent releases; Wo Ka Me Ho, Your Glory, Meyi Waye, and its visuals coupled with other releases which gained her more attention even on mainstream radio. ‘Your Glory’ album was one that she had announced far back in 2020 but could not churn out with the aim of putting out a more suiting body of work that can match up with world standards as well as epitomizing the kingdom feat. After several years in the works, and maximum input, the songstress released the album on 20th March 2022, under the management of DWM MUSIC, an arm of the International Destiny Family Tabernacle aka Destiny Worldwide Ministries. According to Lily Portia, the inspiration for ‘Your Glory’ came from the book of Isaiah. “The word of God indeed does not lie. When I had given up, He prompted me of his word in (Isaiah 55:1), that his word does not fall to the ground void, except it accomplishes all that he desires, then he told me clearly, it is victory. He said to me, arise, shine for thy light has come and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee (Isaiah 60:1) Oh Hallelujah,” she said. She noted that each of the 15 tracks on the album, is a ‘Rhema’ at every stage of her life that kept her above every circumstance and she named it ‘Your Glory’ to give praise to God. Many music aficionados say the album will go down in history as one of the best gospel projects of 2022. Lily Portia has been busy since the album dropped, recently she performed at the just concluded Mission Praize by God’s Mission Ministries. She is also billed to perform at ‘Worship Experience’, an annual programme organised by Destiny Worldwide Ministries, in September. On how she handles challenges, she said, “I believe God has a way of brooding and building every individual, I never saw anything I went through, as a challenge. It was rather to build me and make me the better lady God wants me to be.” In giving her advice to upcoming gospel artists, she said: “Remain steadfast in prayer and fasting, be steadfast in the word of God, which is our life manual, remain in the house of the Lord, and serve diligently with your God-given talent, because we have a core mandate of preaching Christ through our songs,” she stated. In due time, Lily Portia will announce dates for her upcoming tour later in the year. Currently her ‘Your Glory’ album is enjoying massive airplay across radio stations in Ghana and Nigeria, and it’s available on all major streaming platforms.