 Oyetola was returned as governor-elect after a supplementary election held in seven polling units across four local governments.  At the end of the tally of votes, the APC candidate scored a total of 255,505 votes while the PDP candidate Senator Ademola Adeleke scored a total of 255,023 votes.  But in the build up to this Saturday’s election, it would seem like Oyetola as APC candidate appears to have addressed some of the setbacks in the 2018 governorship poll.  However, some political observers of events in the state, would argue that the party has made deliberate efforts to tackle factors that strained its quest for victory in 2018. Recall that the Oyetola took over office from the current minister of interior, Rauf Aregbesola.  Some of the major issues that defined the 2018 polls were: half salary, non remittance of contributory pension, single uniform regime, reclassification of schools, workers’ unrest, students’ restiveness and the inability to rebuild the Atakumosa market, among others.  Since assuming office, the governor has paid salaries and pensions and contributory remittances as and when due. More so, recently, Osun was listed by the National Pension Commission as one of the five states that are up to date with remittances of the pension. Oyetola is also reducing the backlog that was inherited.  Interestingly, the single uniform policy that has been abolished by the governor revived the local economy as school uniform sellers and tailors are back in business.  Oyetola also convened the Osun Economic Summit in 2019 to launch a season of economic revolution which has attracted investments despite the Covid-19 pandemic.  Some of the investments include the Polythene Pipe and Tractor Assemblage Factory located at Free Trade Zone; Topsell Nigeria Limited, makers of perm kernel oil, located at Aisu, Ede; the International Trade Centre/Industrial Hub and Inland Port at Dagbolu, where some factories are already springing up. Other investment efforts are at various stages of MoU completion.  As part of efforts to further stimulate the Osun economy, the government, in collaboration with the Bank of Industries, BOI, assisted five moribund industries to return to operations, including Argo Multi-Ventures – bottlers of Global products, Moye Oil Petro-chemical Company and Honesty CICS Aluminium Company, located at Aisu, Ede.  His supporters also argue that he was able to introduce the Alternative Project Funding Approach to finance road infrastructure and other projects. He also disbursed about Five Billion Naira through the Osun Micro-Credit Agency to support entrepreneurs, farmers, petty traders and businessmen and women.  In the health sector, he has inaugurated 25 Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) so far, which was confirmed by the immediate past health minister, Professor Isaac Adewole.
Speaking at one of the inauguration ceremonies in Ilesa, the former minister said “Osun has become the leading light in the health sector as reflected in the huge commitment that the State had made to repositioning the sector for the optimum use and benefit of the citizenry.  “I am repeating it that no government in Nigeria has embarked on the construction and renovation of 332 PHCs at a time as being done by the present administration in the state.”  In infrastructure, Oyetola fixed the Igbajo road which was last touched 33 years ago and renovated the Atakumosa Market, which got burnt in 2015.  To this end, the Asiwaju of Igbajo, a legal czar, Chief Solomon Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), who led a delegation of Igbajo Development Association (IDA) on a “Thank You” visit to gvernor said: “For many years, this (Ada-Igbajo) road has been crying for rehabilitation. Even before I became the commissioner for Justice in the State (1991-92), this road had been in a terrible state.  “You have given us great relief. Osun is very lucky to have you as Governor at this time. You have come to power with deep experience in both the private and the public sectors as reflected in the way and manner you have been prudently and sensibly running the resources and affairs of the State.”  Although the opposition in the state as witnessed during the governorship debate picked holes in Oyetola’s policy direction, pundits aver that his strategies transformed  Osun’s economy measurably in the last three and half years, having tackled the debt issues, workers salaries challenge and pension problem in the state.  But just like last election, Oyetola will face PDP’s Senator Ademola Adelekeat the polls. But it would seem like the contest will be more interesting with Labour Party candidate, Hon Lasun Yussuff, who was former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives.  While some pundits consider this a tough contest, other aver that this election season would allow the governor run on his terms, unlike in 2018. What’s more, a key figure in the 2018 governorship election, Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate, Senator Iyiola Omisore, is now the APC national secretary and he is a key campaigner for Oyetola.  However, the APC held its mega rally of last Tuesday, where all its 21 governors stormed Osogbo.  The progressive governors reaffirmed their unalloyed support for Oyetola just as they declared their readiness to do all that is necessary within the law to ensure his re-election.  While addressing a mammoth crowd at the Mega Rally held at the Osogbo Township Stadium, national leaders of the APC expressed confidence that the party will coast home to victory in overwhelming fashion come Saturday.  The Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, lauded Oyetola’s prudence and efficiency in managing the State’s meagre resources, calling on citizens to look beyond political sentiments in their choice of who to elect, and to vote massively for Oyetola.  On his part, the presidential flag-bearer of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, urged the people of Osun to replicate the victory recorded last month in Ekiti.  Tinubu said: “We have come to ask that you vote massively on Saturday for APC, not as a mark of entitlement but because of the future of your children. “Before you make your decision, think of the future. We are a party that guarantees your future because we are known for fulfilling our promises. Let us entrust the affairs of our state into the hands of those who mean business, not mushroom parties”.  In his remarks, the APC national chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, said the mega rally was an indication that the APC was not taking any chance with the affairs of Osun, saying the State deserves a leader like Oyetola in its quest for development.  Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, the chairman of the Nigeria Progressives Governors’ Forum, Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, assured that Oyetola has the backing of all APC governors in the coming election, saying he had earned it with his outstanding performance.  Earlier, chairman of the National Campaign Council for Osun governorship election and Lagos State Governor, Babajide SanwoOlu, described Oyetola as deserving of another term based on his personal encounters with the people of the State.  In his words, “I have been on the campaign trail with him and I have witnessed the overwhelming support and how the people have said he is deserving of another term.” Governor Oyetola, on his part, said Osun is on the path of consolidating on the gains of the last three and a half years.  He urged the people of Osun, especially workers, to shun political traducers who are peddling falsehood that his administration will renege on its commitment to their welfare if re-elected, saying he remains strongly committed to their welfare.  Oyetola also declared his readiness to do beyond what he has done in his first term, saying the welfare of workers and citizens and the overall development of Osun remain his priority.  It’s a matter of hours to the governorship election. How much corrections the governor has made to ensure that it does not have such a close contest will be manifested in days ahead.