 Rector of the Institution, Engr. Michael Arimanwa, gave this admonition while addressing Matriculants yesterday during the 44th matriculation ceremony of the Polytechnic which was held at the Institution’s pavelion.  He reminded the students that Academic Board will pronounce them graduate only if they have been found of good behavior conduct in the Polytechnic.  “This means that your character must define your personality and achievements. It must all times be clean and unquestionable so that you will not constitute embarrassment to yourself, family, department and the Institution”.  He further advised them to avoid indecent dressing, examination malpractice, cultism, co-inhabitation saying the penalty is instant rustication.  The Rector therefore urged Students’Union Government of the institution to see the management as partners in progress and however congratulated and wished them well in their stay in the polytechnic.  He also said, that Federal Polytechnic, Nekede, Owerri, will send about forty (40) students to the Innoson Manufacturing company in Anambra State for their Industrial Training (IT).  In his address at the ocassion, the Chief Executive Officer of the Innoson Karia Academy, . Ndubuisi Ezengwa, said the IKA is the training arm of the Innoson manufacturing company.  Ezengwa said, that the manufacturing company has trained both private and sponsored candidates under the Federal Government, saying that the company’s collaboration with the Polytechnic will be beneficial.  Pastor Onyema Ubaka who was the former Public Relations Officer of the institution, lauded the Rector, congratulated the matriculated students.  The former image maker disclosed his plans to organize a seminar, entitled “Ethical Sensitization Workshop” which he said would equip the students.  In her address, a National Diploma Mass Communication student of the polytechnic, Eleaka Jennifer, thanked the Rector and Governing Council of the Polytechnic for setting the pace and maintaining the position of the Federal Polytechnic , Nekede, Owerri.  She lauded the institution for giving disabled candidates, including herself, the opportunity to study in the institution and prayed God to bless management of the Polytechnic.