 The decision to end the exercise by the Commission was sequel to the judgement delivered by the Federal High Court on Wednesday, July 13, 2022 in which the court dismissed a suit filed by the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) which was seeking an extension of the exercise.  A statement by INEC national commissioner and chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, on Friday in Abuja, said with the judgement of the Federal High Court, all legal encumbrances about CVR have now been removed.  Accordingly, he said the Commission has taken the following decisions: “The CVR is hereby extended for another two weeks until Sunday 31st July 2022, thereby bringing the total duration of the extension to 31 days (1st – 31st July 2022).  “The exercise has also been extended to eight hours daily from 9.00am – 5.00 pm instead of the current duration of six hours (9.00 am – 3.00 pm) daily; and “The exercise is also extended to include weekends (Saturdays and Sundays) as against only weekdays.”  Okoye said the Commission appreciated that the timeframe may be tight for many prospective registrants, but there is a lot that the Commission is required to do under the electoral legal framework in relation to voter registration and compilation of the register that will require time to accomplish.  For instance, he said the Commission is required to: “Clean-up of the register to remove multiple registrants using the Automated Biometric Identification System (ABIS).  “Consolidate the national register of voters (existing voters and new registrants) and display same on Polling Unit basis for each of the 8,809 Registration Areas (Wards) across the 774 Local Government Areas nationwide for public scrutiny. This lasts for a period of one week.  On the basis of a new projection of 95 million voters, on the basis of 10 voters per page, the Commission has to print 9,500,000 pages for the display. “Print millions of Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) for all fresh registrants and applicants for transfer and replacement of lost or damaged PVCs. “Ensure that there is ample time for voters to collect their PVCs ahead of the 2023 General Election.”  He further said the Commission is required to print the final register of voters in triplicate for the 2023 General Election involving a projected 28,500,000 pages for accreditation and display at 176,846 polling units for national elections (Presidential and National Assembly) on 25th February 2023 and State elections (Governorship and State Assembly) on 11th March 2023.  He said the Commission will also make copies of the updated national register of voters available to political parties not later than 30 days to the date fixed for the General Election in 2023.  “We appeal for the patience and understanding of all Nigerians as we conclude the exercise which will resume after the 2023 General Election. “We observed that following the continuation of the exercise beyond 30th June 2022, many of the registration centres recorded low turnout of prospective registrants. With this two-week extension, we appeal to eligible citizens not to wait until the last few days before they inundate the centres again to register. “We appreciate the interest of Nigerians to register and participate in the electoral process and once again reiterate our commitment to credible and transparent elections. This can only be achieved with the support and cooperation of all Nigerians,” Okoye added.