 They offered royal blessings to the Delta All Progressive Congress, (APC) Governorship candidate and his running mate, Hon. Friday Ossai Osanebi in their quest for the governorship of the state.  All the kings from the 24 kingdoms that make up Urhoboland attended the event which held at the palace of the Ohworode of Olomu Kingdom and Chairman, Urhobo Traditional Rulers Council, His Royal Majesty, Ovie Richard Ogbon Ogoni-Oghoro 1.  In a meeting today with Urhobo monarchs under the aegis of Urhobo Traditional Rulers Council, (UTRC), the monarchs, the royal father who is reputed to be Africa’s oldest traditional ruler, lauded the sterling performance of Senator Omo-Agege and for restoring the voice of the Urhobo nation at the national level.  “Senator Omo-Agege is a listening person. This is the second time he has come here to give report of his stewardship. This time he has covered the whole of Urhobo nation. Seeing is believing. Every part of the Urhobo nation has been touched. We are glad. We know when you come to the pinnacle of administration in the state, all things will be better,” the centenarian said.   Giving his account of stewardship, Deputy Senate President, reeled out a catalogue projects he had attracted to all eight local government areas of the senatorial district.
While assuring that he would turn the fortunes of Delta around, and make the state a giant construction site, he expressed regret that what the state collects from FAAC Allocation and 13 percent derivation are not commensurate with the physical development on ground.  He said: “Borno, Ebonyi, Kaduna, Kano States and others that are not oil-producing states, hence do not receive 13 percent Derivation, have become construction sites. All our communities today are in a state of decay. I have chosen not to indict anybody but I can and will do better”.  Other Urhobo monarchs at the event included the Ovie of Agbarha Otor Kingdom, HRM Richard Oghenevwogaga, Ebelle JP. Okorefe 1; Ovie of Ughelli Kingdom, His Majesty, Wilson Ojakovo Oghoghovwe Oharisi III; Ovie of Agbon Kingdom, Ogurime-rime Ukori I, Michael Omeru; Ovie of Oghara Kingdom, HRM Noble Eshimetan, Orefe III; Okobaro of Ughievwen Kingdom, HRM Matthew Ediri Egbin, Owahwa 11, among others.  In Omo-Agege’s entourage were his running mate, Rt. Hon. Friday Ossai Osanebi; the state APC Chairman, Elder Omeni Sobotie; Chairman of the party in Delta Central Senatorial District, Chief Paulinus Akpeki; APC Senatorial Candidate for Delta Central, Chief Edeh Dafinone among others