With the precarious situation that the manufacturing sector is currently in and the looming dangers ahead, manufacturers called for a national response and sustainability strategy to guarantee the survival of the sector and avoid further de-industrialisation. Manufacturers stated this in the MAN CEO’s Confidence Index: Preliminary Report & Highlights of Findings for first quarter (Q1), 2022. According to the report, the Aggregate MCCI score declined to 53.9 points in Q1 2022 from 55.4 points recorded in Q4 2021. The slight decline still confirms sustained confidence of the sector on the economy despite slight reduction in performance in the quarter. Contributory factors to the decline in the Index score for the First Quarter, 2022 include eroding disposable income of consumers, high interest rate, excessive drive for revenue by government, obvious neglect of the economy for politics, the persistent acute shortage of Forex; insecurity, the immediate impact of the Russian Invasion of Ukraine as seen in the hike in price of diesel, wheat and other imported manufacturing inputs. Findings from sectoral analysis showed that operations of manufacturing concerns in the Wood & Wood Products, Electrical & Electronics and Motor Vehicle & Miscellaneous Assembly groups were heavily challenged in the Q1 2022. On industrials zones, out of the 13 industrial zones in Nigeria, Bauchi/Benue/Plateau, Abuja and Rivers struggled in Q1, 2022. The performance was clearly depicted by the Index scores of 48.3, 44.8 and 46.0 points respectively, in the period under review which fell below the 50 neutral points threshold Index score. This can be attributed to the unbridled disruption of manufacturing activities by high level insecurity, rising operating cost and the general manufacturing unfriendly environment. MAN stated that,  “in recapitulation, available facts and recent experiences have shown that the emergence of a challenge in one country can became a major constraint with spiral effects for the entire world.” According to the association, the trend observed in the first quarter 2022 MCCI resonates with a priori expectations, the oscillatory trajectory of the macroeconomy and fluctuating manufacturing performances observed in the last two years. “In fact, the performance recorded is largely similar but with slight differing magnitude when compared with what was obtained in the last quarter of 2021. Clearly, the prevalence of familiar  binding constraints to the steady growth of the manufacturing sector, the reverse effects of COVID-19 pandemic and the food shortages, rising inflation, foreign exchange parity, economic uncertainty, general increase in price of petroleum products, supply chain disruptions and the growing concern of future increase in the prices of  wheat and fertilizer manufacturing inputs occasioned by the Russian invasion of Ukraine are contributory factors that impacted the aggregate MCCI,” he stressed. It added that, all of these clearly shows that the ongoing invasion of Ukraine will continue to have negative spiral effects on every sector of the economy if not halted as soon as possible, saying, the implication of allowing the invasion to continue for the manufacturing sector will include enormous decrease in capacity utilization, inflation, dwindling sales, lower productivity, unemployment and heightened insecurity. Certainly, all of these would also have severe implications for economic and social wellbeing of over 200 million Nigerians, it stressed. The Manufacturers CEO’s Confidence Index (MCCI) of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) is a quarterly research and advocacy publication of the association, which measures changes in pulse of operators and trends in the manufacturing sector quarterly, in response to movements in the macroeconomy and government policies using primary data mined through direct survey on over 400 CEO of MAN member-companies.