Hundreds of supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State have converged at their various council wards to vote for candidates of their choice to emerge as the governorship/House of Assembly flag bearers of the party. Our Correspondent who visited some of the wards in Makurdi observed that prospective voters in their numbers were waiting patiently for the arrival of voting materials. It was also gathered that some of the aspirants who are not comfortable with direct primaries option are already on the verge of decamping to other parties. In a separate interview with our correspondent, Barnabas Aber and Alexander Nambe described direct primaries as the best method of selecting leaders. According to Nambe, “We have heard that some of the APC aspirants have even gone to court to secure an injunction to stop the party from conducting the primaries and at the same time insisting ‘indirect primaries’ but we want to tell them that it will not work. We are very much comfortable with the Direct primaries method. “If they have confidence in themselves why would they be jittery. We heard that most of them have package motorcycles and N2 million for each delegate, but what we need now is someone who can take us out of the present predicament not money, that is why we are patiently waiting for the arrival of the materials.” However, the publicity secretary of the party Dan-Morgan Ihomun in a statement earlier said, “In furtherance to the directives of the National Working Committee of APC which slated Thursday 26/5/ 2022 for the conduct of the governorship/House of Assembly party primaries, the Benue State Chapter of the party has fully complied with the directives.” Ihomun also informed members, aspirants, and most importantly the elected delegates, that the scheduled primary elections will hold across the State and Federal constituencies as well as Senatorial districts using ‘Direct Method.” He advised all members of the APC to go back to their various wards where they registered to take part in the process of electing their respective representatives. He said, “We urge all party faithful to be peaceful and law abiding. Where there is a deliberate attempt or mischief by anyone or group intended to frustrate the process the party will not hesitate to apply appropriate sanctions on such erring members of the party” “We want to advise members of the APC family and mischief makers to note that security agencies have been properly brief to make sure the elections are free, credible, and transparent.” The statement further urged party members to be peaceful in their conduct and choose candidates of their choice. In a telephone interview, the secretary of the APC Benue governorship primaries Dr. Aliyu Ibrahim told our Correspondent that we are on our way to Màkurdi and when we reach, we will address the stakeholders of the Party. 