As the Oyo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) holds its governorship primary election on Wednesday, May 25, the Oyo State Road Traffic Management Authority (OYRTMA) has issued a traffic advisory to members of the public, who may wish to use the Lekan Salami Stadium/Dugbe axis of Ibadan, the state capital. The agency maintained that the advisory became imperative in order to ensure orderliness and reduce the stress of teeming road users along the axis and within the period the event, which is billed to commence at 8.00am, would last. A press statement by the executive chairman of the Authority, Mogaji Akin Fagbemi, reads: “Sequel to a joint security/traffic management meeting held today by security agencies in Oyo State including the Police, DSS, Amotekun Corps, FRSC, NSCDC, Operation Burst and OYRTMA over the gubernatorial primaries of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) scheduled to hold tomorrow 25th May, 2022, the Oyo State Road Transport Management Authority (OYRTMA) has issued traffic advisory to the motoring public intending to utilize routes surrounding the Lekan Salami Stadium, Adamasingba, Ibadan, proposed venue of the Party’s Gubernatorial Primaries slated to commence by 0800hours. “The Authority is set to deploy its men and officers alongside other sister agencies to all routes leading to the premises in a bid to maintaining orderliness and reducing anticipated traffic loggerheads that may likely ensue due to the high inflow of vehicles expected at the venue.  “This is a proactive measure to ensure seamless movement in and around the facility as well as ensuring that economic activities are not totally paralyzed because of avoidable traffic jam.” Dr. Fagbemi added: “By this notice, we implore members of the public to kindly note the likelihood of a relatively high volume of traffic in and around the Adamasingba axis of Ibadan metropolis because of the gubernatorial primaries of the PDP which we expect to draw a huge traffic flow to the area. “Although, in conjunction with other security agencies, we have deployed sufficient men, officers and other facilities to man strategic locations along the route in a bid to maintaining orderliness. We have equally directed intending participants and vehicle owners at the event to kindly utilize the parking spaces provided at the Recreation Club adjacent the Adamasingba Stadium, as only authorized and duly identified VVIPs would be allowed entry into the Stadium premises.  “Commuters that have nothing to do with the party activities are advised to take alternative routes between the hours of 0800hours and 1800hours to avoid loss of productive time in a likely traffic jam.” Speaking further, the OYRTMA Boss sternly warned motorists to avoid indiscriminate parking along the Mokola-Dugbe, Danax Pharmacy-Sabo and Queen Cinema-Recreation Club axes, saying any defaulters would face the music. “Any vehicle seen haphazardly parked along Mokola-Dugbe axis, Danax-Sabo, Queen Cinema-Recreation Club would be impounded and penalised for obstruction of traffic. “Therefore, we beseech the motoring public to cooperate with our officers and other relevant security agencies as we shall be on continuous patrol to ensure a free and seamless traffic situation.  “We regret the inconveniences this might cause some motorists, but we shall do all within our means to bring the impact to its barest minimum,” Dr. Fagbemi concluded.        