Professionals within the All Progressives Congress (APC) have tasked the party’s national leadership to give professionals and technocrats more roles in the party. A delegation led by the acting Board of Trustees (BoT) chairman of the APC Professional Forum, Dr Nkem Okeke, stated this when they met with the national secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore. Okeke said the party has an untapped pool of professionals that could easily add value to the party’s operations at all levels. He said: “The narrative has to change to include this untapped pool of party members who have shown more than a passing interest in politics and governance in the country. “We have quite a number, not only in our midst but also within the rank and file, that are prepared for responsibilities so we crave the indulgence of the National Working Committee (NWC) to also look in the direction of professionals who are registered APC members. “As a registered think-tank in the party, it falls within our mandate to contribute our quota to strengthening APC. We have therefore being holding consultations with registered professionals bodies in order to woo interested professionals into the party as well as to synergise with them in order to enhance professionalism in governance.” “And while the party is in the midst of electing candidates that will fly our flag in the various elections in 2023, we are hoping to organize conferences, retreats and symposia in partnership with the new APC leadership as part of preparations for the next general elections.”  Responding, Senator Omisore welcomed the idea behind the formation of APC Professionals Forum and promised to support its initiatives.  “We are prepared to work with you and have no problem including professionals in the activities of the party ahead of the next election,” he said.  The delegation which also included the national coordinator of the forum, Hon. Akeem Akintayo also met the deputy national chairman (North) Senator Abubakar Kyari, national vice chairman (South) Victor Giadom as well as national organising secretary, Alhaji Suleiman Argungu and his deputy, Nze Chidi Duru.