President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday in Abuja effectively eased out members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) who had earlier expressed interest in contesting elections in 2023 by holding a farewell session for them. This came just two days after directing them to tender their resignation letters from his cabinet. At the last FEC meeting on Wednesday, Buhari had told all ministers and other political appointees aspiring to contest elective offices in the 2023 general elections to resign their current appointments. He had singled out the minister of state for education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, for commendation for sending in his resignation letter earlier and asked others to follow suit. He said, ‘’I note that some have complied while others are in the process of doing so. I would like to use this opportunity to commend your decision and courage to contest for elective offices and your compliance with my directive.” Before yesterday’s valedictory session, only two ministers, Godswill Akpabio (Niger Delta Affairs) and Ogbonnaya Onu (science, technology and innovation) had immediately resigned as far back as Wednesday when the president gave the directive while Emeka Nwajiuba (minister of state education) was said to have resigned much earlier on April 28, a day after collecting the presidential forms. During the farewell meeting yesterday, the president, who commended the departing public office holders for serving the nation ‘’with dignity and honour.’’ LEADERSHIP Weekend, however, gathered that not all ministers were planning to follow through and resign. They were said to be holding out in hopes that an Appeal Court ruling on Wednesday voiding section 84(12) of the Electoral Act 2022 would have been enough to allow them keep their jobs while contesting in party primaries later this month. Unexpectedly though, President Buhari invited all ten ministers who had indicated interest in contesting elections to a valedictory session at the presidential villa yesterday, effectively accepting their resignation letters, which most of them were yet to tender. RELATED: Resign If You Have Picked Party Nomination Forms, Buhari Orders Ministers But rather than resign, minister of labour and employment, Dr Chris Ngige, withdrew from the presidential race. Ngige had earlier reported to have lamented the exorbitant cost of the forms, saying he had budgeted N50 million for buying them. He later claimed that his supporters taxed themselves to purchase the forms to him. However, he has been speaking publicly and to the media about being in the presidential race. Ngige who announced his withdrawal in a press statement yesterday said he had not filled or submitted the nomination forms bought by his supporters. “Today, 13th May, 2022, I had an audience with the president, Muhammadu Buhari, as a follow-up to the one l earlier had with him on 11th May, 2022. “Having also consulted widely with my family, constituents, supporters and well-wishers, it is my pleasure to announce the withdrawal of my interest and earlier decision to contest the office of the president in the 2023 general elections,” Ngige’s statement said. LEADERSHIP Weekend reports that the minister of justice and attorney-general of the federation, Abubakar Malami, who paid N50 million to obtain the APC nomination forms to contest the Kebbi State governorship election is also reported to be considering withdrawing from the contest after Buhari forced his hand. A source in the ministry of justice told our correspondent that as of yesterday the minister was yet to tender his resignation letter. ‘’Our minister was in the office today (yesterday). He is yet to resign and we’ve not been told that any handing over ceremony will be taking place’’, he said. Another source confirmed that the minister had decided to remain in office until the expiry of the tenure of the present administration next year. ‘’Of course, his governorship aspiration will have to go for him to retain his seat as AGF because of the order given to the ministers by the president,’’ another source close to the minister said. Malami has not made any public statement regarding his intentions. Efforts to reach the media aide of the minister, Dr. Umar Jubrilu Gwandu, were not successful as his telephone lines were switched off. At the time of going to press, it was not clear whether the president would accept to keep both Malami and Ngige in his cabinet after publicly bidding them farewell. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that a good number of the ministers were yet to resign when the valedictory session took place and, by late Friday night, had still not done so. These include the minister of women affairs, Pauline Tallen, and the minister of state for petroleum, Timipre Sylva, who seemed to have accepted his fate but his aides are disappointed at the forced resignation. Speaking at a valedictory session for appointees leaving the cabinet to pursue political ambitions, the president in a statement by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, said: ‘’I have no doubt that if the next president emerges from among former members of this cabinet, like any other aspirant, ample competence and outstanding service delivery would be on display. This will be part of our legacies to Nigerians.’’ He thanked them for their invaluable services to the nation through their contributions as cabinet members, even as he wished them success in the upcoming elections and other future endeavours. President Buhari told the ministers that looking back over the years, as the head of the team, he had fond memories of incisive and robust discussions during cabinet meetings, rendering of performance reports during special sessions and presidential retreats. ‘’In 2015, citizens of this country overwhelmingly voted for me to become the president of this nation on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). ‘’Selecting members of the cabinet went through a careful process so that the best and most competent could emerge. The performance of that class of 2015 proved me right. ‘’In 2019, Nigerians similarly re-elected me as president. Again, the selection went through another meticulous process. ‘’That re-election was significant because it served as a referendum on our performance during the first term and it inspired me to bring back some of the members of the first cabinet either to their old ministries or re-assigned to other sectors. ‘’New members were also brought on board to inject fresh energies, skills and ideas to enhance the execution of government’s programmes and policies.:” According to him, their experience working in his cabinet had equipped a significant number of the cabinet members to aspire to higher elective offices, including the office of the president. Noting that the departure of some cabinet members has undoubtedly created a vacuum that should be filled, the president said appointments would be made without delay so that the business of governance will not suffer. President Buhari urged the remaining members of the cabinet to show more diligence, resilience and commitment to serve Nigerians better, saying ‘‘the journey to the finish line is still very far’’. The following outgoing FEC members were present at the valedictory session: ministers of transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio; science, technology and innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu; petroleum (state), Timipre Sylva; labour and employment, Chris Ngige. Others are the attorney-general and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN); minister of state, mines and steel development, Uche Ogah; the minister of women affairs, Pauline Tallen and the minister of state for Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Tayo Alasoadura. The minister of state for education, Emeka Nwajiuba, who had earlier tendered his resignation, was not present at the valedictory session.  Buhari is best president in difficult times – Akpabio Speaking on behalf of the outgoing ministers, Akpabio thanked the president for giving them the opportunity to serve and contribute their quota to nation building. He described working with the president as a ‘‘fantastic and knowledgeable experience,’’ adding that as they step aside, they will continue to be great disciples of Buhari. “I want you to know that it is time for us to propagate Buharism. I want you to know that we are going to be working closely with the minister of information and culture to take your message of transformation, love, patience, administrative sagacity to Nigerians, ‘’ he said.  Amaechi Resigns Monday However, barring any last-minute change in plans, the minister of transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, will be resigning his position to focus on his presidential campaign. The minister, who has been signing off and clearing his tables, also inaugurated the boards of the agencies under his ministry yesterday. After the inauguration, one of the close sources to the minister said Amaechi will resign over the weekend and it would be made public by Monday. The source said that unless the president stops him from resigning, the minister will leave the cabinet to test his popularity at the APC primaries. There had been uncertainty over the reported resignation of Amaechi on Wednesday after the APC Twitter UK handle reported that he resigned his position following President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive that all cabinet members vying for elective offices in the 2023 elections should resign before May 16. The resignation of Amaechi was confirmed in a tweet by APC Twitter UK handle. It wrote, “Nigeria’s Minister of #Transportation, HM Chibuike R. Amaechi [@ChibuikeAmaechi] has resigned from the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to focus on his presidential campaign. “Thank you for your service to Nigeria.” However, the minister’s social media aide Nkeiru Ibeleme said the story was fake news.  Emefiele Withdraws From Presidential Contest Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Mr Godwin Emefiele may have withdrawn from contesting the 2023 presidential election. Multiple sources indicated that the CBN Governor withdrew from the contest when it became clear the odd was against him if the party allows all the candidates to go into open contest in a coming party primaries. Speculations were rife up and until yesterday that he had made up his mind to contest the for the APC presidential primaries. One of the source at the bank said the CBN Governor has withdrawn from the presidential race and has informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to continue in office as CBN Governor. Another source who said Emefiele has not told the directors of the bank of his new decision, has told a few of his aides to discontinue their assignment in line with the rumoured presidential ambition.  Resignation can’t be withdrawn – Falana However, this newspaper was not able to get a confirmation from the bank as all attempts to get the official confirmation of the bank proved abortive. Meanwhile, a Senior Advicate of Nigeria, Femi Falana has said minister cannot withdraw their resignation letters as it would be illegal. Falana said in a statement yesterday; “In a farewell meeting held with the former Ministers on Friday, May 13, 2022, President Buhari thanked them for serving the nation sacrificially, ”with dignity and honour”. “While wishing  them success in the upcoming elections and in future endeavours the President commended them  for their decision and courage to contest for elective offices and their  compliance with his directive. “Having resigned from the Buhari administration Mr. Abubakar Malami SAN and Dr. Chris Ngige were reported to have withdrawn their letters of resignation after the farewell meeting. Such withdrawal is illegal as it is constitutes a gross contravention of section 306 (2) of the Constitution which stipulates that “The resignation of any person from any office established by this Constitution shall take effect when the writing signifying the resignation is received by the authority or person to whom it is addressed or by any person authorised by that authority or person to receive it.”  Jonathan Yet To Submit Nomination Forms As APC Closes Sale Of Forms Former President Goodluck Jonathan is yet to submit his presidential nomination and expression of interest forms to the All Progressives Congress (APC). This is just as the sale of nomination and expression of interest forms to aspirants of the party ended yesterday. A source close to the former president confided in LEADERSHIP Weekend last night that the for Nigerian leader was yet to submit the forms, noting however that he may do still do so as of yesterday. In the past few months, anxiety had enveloped the APC over fresh campaigns to return Jonathan to power in the 203 general election. This was heightened when Jonathan penultimate Friday asked some youths urging him to contest the 2023 presidency to watch “watch out soon” for his next move. But the former president, in a statement, rejected the forms from the Nothern group made up of Fulanis and Almajiris. The group known as the Association of Fulani-Almajir had paid N100 million to obtain the nomination forms, saying they raised the money from selling their cows to ensure Jonathan returns to Aso Rock in 2023. 