Briefing journalists in Abakaliki, the State capital, Chief Emegha stated that at no point did the party  request for extra money from the aspirants apart from the N500,000 State Clearance fee. Chief Emegha warned party members to desist from smearing the image of the party, adding that the leadership of the party was focused and committed towards ensuring the victory of APC in the forthcoming general elections. “To my greatest astonishment, the said aspirants alleged that they were asked to pay a whooping sum of N900,000. All we asked from them is the N500,000 State Clearance fee. The question is, who made the request? Let it be on record that we did not mandate any aspirant to pay extra N400,000. “You can see I’m obviously happy because the spokesman of the group is a lawyer and I am sure he knows the legal implications of his action. “As an advocate of peace, I’m still extending the olive branch to whosoever that is nursing ill-feeling of any kind against the party to come forth for negotiation because our party’s victory at the general elections cannot be jeopardised or truncated due to reconcilable differences among members of one indivisible entity,” he said. The party chairman also dismissed the rumour that the 25 aspirants gunning for seats in the State House of Assembly were excluded from screening in Abakaliki, adding that the petition was frivolous and mischievous. 25 House of Assembly aspirants had on Sunday petitioned the national leadership of the APC, alleging that they were excluded from screening by the State Working Committee (SWC) of the party in Ebonyi. Emegha noted that the screening committee members would be inaugurated on Monday at the national secretariat of the APC in Abuja. “APC Ebonyi State is one and no individual or group can destroy the party nor its victory. From the onset of this administration, I alongside other members of my executive promised to give everyone a voice and this has remained our principle and driving force. “How can they also be laying claims that I made myself incommunicado by not responding to calls or text messages. This is a fallacy because everyone can attest that as the state party chairman, I responds to calls at a dial,” he added.