“Ojuelegba Shitta, ask my sister,
my music travel no visa,
oya ask your sister”.Nigerian Superstar Wizkid,yelled in the opening lines of the hit track “No Lele”off his 2011 groundbreaking debut album ‘Super Star’.Somewhat of a prophetic declaration of the global recognition his music was to get in years to come. It won’t be out of place to say that the prophesy has come to pass,as it is now a regular occurrence to hear Wizkid’s music and the music of several other Nigerian artists booming from speakers in clubs,lounges, restaurants and recreational centres in Europe, America and other parts of the world. Recently Super Eagles midfielder John Ogu said that he was always happy watching Israelis vibing to songs from popular Nigerian singers including Wizkid, Davido, and Burna Boy.The midfielder who plays for Israeli club Hapoel Nof HaGalil, stated on his Twitter page.
He tweeted, “God knows how happy I am watching Israelis vibing to Wizkid, Davido, Burna boy songs here… I walk with my shoulder up as a Nigerian. Ckay songs too.” Music streaming platforms have played a huge role in bringing Nigerian music to global attention.
Two decades ago,it was very rare to see Nigerian artists or their music making waves internationally, chiefly because majority of the record labels domiciled in Nigeria lacked the structures and distribution network to spread it to a larger audience. The explosion of Afrobeats as Nigerian music is popularly called in the U.S. and Europe,owes much to the likes of D,Banj,Femi Kuti,Wizkid,Burna Boy,Davido,Tiwa Savage,just to mention a few.But the real driving force behind the invasion is a rapidly evolving,globalized music industry driven by music streaming platforms. Thanks to streaming platforms,songs can now be transmitted quickly and easily,creating strong consumer demand well before the supply arrives. According to Steve Kovsky of Current Analysis, a U.S. based media – research firm, “Streaming platforms allow niche music categories to exist,and to reach an “affluent audience” without the backing of a major label. For music lovers streaming in particular is a blessed relief, a conduit into a world they previously wouldn’t have access to”. Music streaming platforms have given aspiring and even established Nigerian artists an unprecedented degree of control over their careers. Until recently,record labels had a monopoly on distribution. But after the launch of pioneer music streaming platform cdbaby.com, and others like ”Distrokid’, ‘Tunecore’ Ditto,Gateway Music,Freeme and many others,have enabled Nigerian artists to sell their music directly to fans around the world.
Increasingly, Nigerian artists can make a good living from revenue generated by streaming platforms. A case in point is Chukwuka Ekweani popularly known as Ckay whose global hit ‘Love Nwantiti’ has made him the best-selling African artist globally, has accumulated over N2.6 billion in streaming royalties, according to a report by BusinessDay. “The song’s 6 official versions of the original audio, remixes, and videos have generated over 1.5 billion streams from streaming platforms such as Spotify, Apple music Boomplay, Audiomack, and YouTube. “Spotify seems to have the biggest numbers as the versions of the song have over 824.9 million streams on the platform. Various streaming royalty calculator sites with updated ‘average pay per stream’ numbers bring the earnings of the song on Spotify to $3.3 million which converts to N1.3 billion. “Apple music recorded a total of 100.08 million streams which converts to $500,400 which gives N208.2 million when converted to naira. “According to a recent report, Apple Music‌ subscribers made up 15 percent of all streaming service listeners in the global market in the second quarter of 2021, placing it in a distant second place behind Spotify the dominant platform with double the amount boasting 31 percent of the worldwide market. “Locally, Boomplay reportedly pays artists from N20 to N50 per stream, and with a cumulated 24.3 million streams, Ckay is to earn on average over N607.5 million or $1.5 million dollars. Audiomack numbers for the song have reached 33.2 million streams and with an average pay of N1.65, it will earn the singer N54.8 million or $131,654. “Video versions of the song streamed on YouTube have amassed 559.3 million streams and according to streaming Royalty calculators, the song has made him over N407.2 million ($978,775). “The success of the hit song which has been certified gold in the UK among other global certifications has seen a ripple effect on his other works such as Emiliana which has over 26 million streams on Spotify alone”.The report stated. This shift to streaming platforms has created a situation whereby artistes now get more remuneration for their hard work. Esther Adekeye, a mediapreneur and founder of Estol Africa, put it succinctly when she said “music streaming is simply getting artistes’ songs on paid music platforms, where fans can either stream for free, or pay to download, which subsequently turns to be revenues for the artistes.”
Founder, Estol Africa, Esther Adekeye Similarly, RAVE Media founder, Samuel Isong, noted that “with streaming, your fans can financially reward you. As an artiste that’s the only thing you are left with when you are not playing gigs and when you are not a lifestyle artiste in which you can influence trends, and also associate with brands and products. Before the rise of streaming platforms Nigerian artists,who did not have the financial backing of a record label or promoters who were willing to pump money to market artists who caught their fancy,where left at the mercy of “Alaba Boys” (A derogatory name for unauthorized music distributors operating from the popular Alaba market in Lagos,Nigeria). While their contributions to the growth of Nigerian music industry can not be undermined,they made huge profits from pirating the works of artists.A good number of Nigerian artists gained popularity through the illegal distribution of their works by the ‘Alaba Boys’ but most of them had little or nothing to show for their efforts. But streaming platforms have helped to eliminate these unauthorized middle men.Nowadays artists can record songs in the comfort of local recording studios or in some cases their homes and upload to streaming platforms,who distribute to a global audience with the support of digital music stores like Spotify,Tidal,Boomplay, Audio mack,Apple music, Deezer and several others. According to a report by IT publication, Tech Cabal,over 238,000 Nigerians experienced Wizkid’s “Made in Lagos” concert from London’s 02 Arena right, from their bedroom, thanks to uduX’s live streaming platform.The music streaming service, uduX, and a telecommunication company in Nigeria partnered to bring the iconic concert,and gave the world a peek into the kind of content Nigeria’s music audience is interested in. The Nigerian music industry has benefited immensely from streaming services,and as more Nigerian artists consistently churn out hit songs after hit songs,and continue to leverage the opportunities provided by these platforms to expose their music on a global scale.It is safe to say the sounds of Afrobeat will continue to linger on the world stage for many years to come.