The global growth is projected to slow from an estimated 6.1 per cent in 2021 to 3.6 per cent in 2022 and 2023. This is 0.8 and 0.2 percentage points lower for 2022 and 2023 than projected in January. However the outlook for Nigeria has been positive with the growth projections reviewed upwards. Beyond 2023, global growth is forecast to decline to about 3.3 per cent over the medium term. War-induced commodity price increases and broadening price pressures have led to 2022 inflation projections of 5.7 per cent in advanced economies and 8.7 per cent in emerging market and developing economies—1.8 and 2.8 percentage points higher than projected last January. Despite the gloomy global outlook, Nigeria, which like other countries, is seeing inflation rise steadily, is among the few countries that saw a positive review in growth projections.  Buoyed by a stronger performance on the non-oil sector, the Nigerian economy is expected to grow by 3.4 per cent this year. The upward review is stronger than the 2.7 per cent projected growth for the country which the International Monetary Fund released in October last year. The fund also reviewed upward the country’s 2023 growth prediction upward from 2.7 per cent to 3.1 per cent putting Nigeria amongst the few countries that got an upward growth review. International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) latest Regional Economic Outlook for sub-Saharan Africa titled ‘A New Shock and Little Room to Manoeuvre’, notes that Nigeria’s growth outlook has improved through higher oil prices and a stronger-than-anticipated recovery of manufacturing and agriculture. “Growth is expected to reach 3.4 per cent in 2022, falling back to 2.9 percent from 2024 onwards. The outlook is subject to high uncertainty associated with oil prices and financial conditions. Moreover, low vaccination rates, rising security risks, and elevated price pressures weigh negatively on the medium-term growth outlook. Diversification away from oil will be critical to raise growth potential sustainably and reduce volatility.” Division chief, Research Department, Mr.  Malhar Nabar, had explained that “the heterogeneity is a key factor, if you look at the global revisions that we have 86 per cent of the global economy revising down and Nigeria is one of the few that’s actually revised up and there are two main factors responsible. One is what you mentioned, the increased oil price which represents a favorable terms of trade effect for Nigeria, will increase oil production and oil exports. “And then the second factor is the strong momentum that we saw in the non-oil sector part of the economy. The non-oil sector of the economy is also showing strong momentum going into this year which helped lift the outcome, growth forecasts that we have for Nigeria to 3.4 per cent for this year, and 3.1 per cent for next year, and that is 0.7 percentage point increase for this year and 0.4percentage point increase.” Director of the IMF’s African Department, Abebe Aemro Selassie, speaking at a virtual briefing at the IMF/World Bank spring meeting recently, added that, the recovery in sub-Saharan Africa picked up in the third quarter of 2021 and held up despite the onset of a fourth COVID-19 wave at the end of the year. He said sub-Saharan Africa’s estimated growth in 2021 has been revised upward from 3.7 to 4.5per cent. “Higher oil prices may generate a windfall gain for the region’s eight oil exporters. But for the other 37 countries, they will worsen trade imbalances and increase living costs. “Indeed, over the past couple of months we have increased our inflation projections significantly lifting the regional average for 2022 by a full four percentage points, and representing the worst outcome since 2008. This year, eleven countries will face double digit inflation; almost all of these have flexible exchange rates, and almost half of these are fragile. “For most countries, the new crisis comes at an extremely difficult time as the COVID-19 pandemic enters its third year, fiscal and international buffers are already under strain, and policy space is limited,” he said. Selassie pointing to key policy priorities for the region, said: “first, shielding their most vulnerable households without undermining debt sustainability. Public debt ratios are at their highest level in over two decades, and many low-income countries are either in, or close to, debt distress. “Fiscal policy needs to protect vulnerable households from rising food and energy prices, without adding to debt vulnerabilities. Targeted transfers to vulnerable households are the first-best response. But targeted tax reductions or price subsidies (both with clear sunset clauses) may be a second-best alternative, especially for countries with weak social safety nets. “For those countries with tighter fiscal constraints, finding the resources to protect the vulnerable may require a reprioritisation of spending. In commodity-exporting countries, on the other hand, higher commodity prices may generate a fiscal windfall. But in light of the uncertain outlook and often-precarious fiscal positions, most of these gains should be used to rebuild policy buffers.” Speaking on the sidelines of the World Bank/IMF meetings recently, the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele said: “we are doing everything possible to support the fiscal authorities by putting in place facilities to support households, businesses and others at single-digit interest rate and that has helped in accelerating output and we feel delighted that even at this meetings, amongst other countries. “The IMF has held a positive position about Nigeria’s growth prospect at 3.4 per cent and we believe that all things being equal we are going to surpass it. So, what we are doing is to continue to focus on our job and nothing more.”