But as of the time of filing this report, the process was yet to begin at the centres designated for the primaries. However, some of the aspirants said they were already sensing foul play due to the delay in the conduct of the shadow election. One of the aspirants for Ekiti North senatorial district, Hon Kehinde Agboola, told journalists in Ado Ekiti that they have been expecting those who are to conduct the primaries since morning but they were not around. Agboola who is a former House of Representatives member said, “We have been waiting for them since morning in Ido Ekiti, the designated venue for the conduct of Ekiti North Primary, but they were nowhere to be found. “We later ran to Ilupeju Ekiti in Oye local government area of the state, but nothing was happening there too. We will keep waiting for them”. Other aspirants for the Ekiti North senatorial district are another House of Representative member, Hon Aribisala, and Funso Ayeni. A top member of the party in the state and an aspirant for the Southern senatorial district who spoke on condition of anonymity told journalists that the primaries have been postponed till Tuesday (today). An unconfirmed report also had it that the primary for the Ekiti Central senatorial district was held at a popular hotel in Ado Ekiti where a former governorship aspirant emerged winner of the election. It was alleged that only two local government areas in the senatorial district voted in the election. Meanwhile, the son of the former governor of Ekiti State, Joju, has emerged one of the House of Representatives candidates of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti state. He won the party’s ticket for the Ekiti Central Federal Constituency I, comprising Ado and Irepodun/Ifelodun, in the PDP primary election. Joju polled 69 votes in the contest to beat one Deji Adeosun to the ticket. Fayose’s media aide, Lere Olayinka, was also voted in the party primary for  the Ekiti Central Federal Constituency II, comprising Ijero, Ekiti West and Efon local government areas. 