In an effort to bring succour to Noma patients and assist Nigeria in mitigating the burden of Noma, the Winkler Family of Germany, through the Nigeria Aids Noma Initiative (NANI), is supporting the federal government to build a National Noma Treatment Centre at the National Hospital, Abuja. Noma or cancrum oris is an infectious and non-contagious disease which rapidly eats away soft tissue and bones around the face, resulting in an awful disfigurement that does not fail to draw attention. Speaking during the foundation laying ceremony on Tuesday, the minister of health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said the Winkler’s family was so touched by the plight of Noma patients, that the mother made a promise to bring succor to the victims by financially supporting their treatment. He said, “That act of kindness grew and led to a pledge to build this hospital. As age caught up with the dear mother, the son Mathis decided he will take up the challenge and fulfill his mother’s wish. They mounted a private family effort to raise funds in their country for this building. The building will be completed in the next one year. “This is not a government, but a family driven initiative. I leave you to imagine what it must have taken to raise funds, commission a hospital design and travel here for the foundation laying and to establish this Centre.” Ehanire noted that the National Hospital Abuja is central for ease of access to Nigerian Noma patients referred from any part of the country. “It will hopefully give more visibility of a disease that many do not know,” he added. The chief medical director of National Hospital Abuja, Dr Jafaru Momoh, who expressed joy that the National Hospital was picked for the project said the centre would have capacity for 100 children at the same time. He said Noma disfigures the face, the muscle, even the bone of the mouth is destroyed by the disease, adding that the treatment will require plastic surgeons and other dentists to fix the teeth and rearrange them, including speech therapists, all of whom are present at the National Hospital. Speaking for the family, Mrs Ute Winkler Stunpf, said, “I am very happy to be in Nigeria for the first time, to fight Noma in your country and to get services. I hope in a short time, we will be able to eradicate Noma in your country.” 