But as the young ones pretend to be celebrating, it must not be forgotten that in recent years, these same children have gone through challenges that threaten to derail their educational and socio-economic future. Since the abduction of schoolgirls from Chibok in Borno State in 2014, schools have been targeted by insurgents and bandits, a not-too veiled threat to their ambitions to be somebody in life. According to the human rights group, Amnesty International, since the abduction of about 276 Chibok schoolgirls by Boko Haram, over 1,500 school children have been kidnapped by armed groups in Nigeria. This month of May, terrorists attacked Gidan Waya community in Kaduna State where they kidnapped four female students of the State College of Education (KSCOE), Gidan Waya in Jema’a Local Government Area of the state. Last June, gunmen stormed Federal Government College, Yauri, Kebbi State, seizing 102 students and eight staff according to the school. Security personnel were able to rescued eight of the kidnapped students and a teacher while the bodies of three students were found in the bush. The kidnappers freed 27 students and three staff in October, while an unspecified number were released after their parents negotiated with the captors. We also recall the sad case of Hanifa Abubakar who was abducted on December 4, 2021, on her way home from Islamiyya and subsequently discovered to have been killed by her teacher and school proprietor, Abdulmalik Tanko, after demanding N6m ransom from her family, at Dakata, Nasarawa Local Government Area of Kano State. In December last year, the death of Sylvester Oromoni Jnr, a Junior Secondary School JSS 2, student of Dowen College, Lagos under controversial circumstances, for the umpteenth time, raised concerns regarding the menace of bullying in schools. There is no gainsaying it that the Nigerian child has not gotten a fair deal from the society as a whole. When they are kidnapped, it is seen as a problem for the families alone. Worse, when they are killed by some blood-sucking demons, beyond the platitudinal expressions of sympathy, it is essentially the cross of their families to carry. It is also pertinent to note that eleven out of the 36 states in Nigeria are yet to domesticate the Child Rights Act passed in 2003 to reduce child abuse in the country. The 11 states that are yet to domesticate the Act include Kebbi, Kano, Katsina, Sokoto, Jigawa, Zamfara, Bauchi, Yobe, Gombe, Borno, and Adamawa. According to a UNICEF report, Nigeria has the highest number of child marriages in Africa, with 23 million girls and women married in childhood. We recall that Nigeria adopted the Child’s Rights Act in 2003, giving legal consent to both the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. A survey conducted by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) had indicated that the population of out-of-school children in Nigeria had risen from 10.5 million to 13.2 million, the highest in the world. Statistics also show that only 61 percent of children within the six-to-11-years age bracket regularly attend primary school. The number of out-of-school children in Nigeria is more than the population of Norway, Singapore, and Cuba. This is shameful and should not be allowed to continue. In a country bedeviled by insurgency in the northeast and banditry in the northwest and north-central, the huge army of out-of-school children will be a ready reservoir of recruits for terrorists and bandits. However, it is gratifying to note that President Muhammadu Buhari had, last year, inaugurated an 18-member Presidential Steering Committee on Alternate School Programme, ASP. On paper, it is an innovative and flexible approach to learning and skills development that ensures that education is designed to specifically address the needs of the target beneficiaries and is delivered conveniently, without unnecessary encumbrances. By targeting out-of-school children, the programme will ensure that more children are equipped with basic literacy skills, reasoning capabilities, technical and vocational expertise that will enable them to live fulfilled lives. Consequently, we call on the federal government to take the safety and education of Nigerian children seriously. Schools must be protected from insurgents and bandits. Furthermore, as the children mark this day, we urge the states that are yet to domesticate the Child Rights Act to do so urgently. The future of the Nigerian Child is at stake and all efforts must be made to safeguard it.