Four people were killed in Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa States yesterday as the Peoples Democractic Party (PDP) held its primaries to pick candidates for the House of Representatives and state Houses of Assembly across the country. Although, the exercise was described by party leaders as largely successful, there were pockets of protests with calls for the cancellation of the outcome of the party poll in some states. In Jigawa and Sokoto states, the party leaders and the aspirants agreed on consensus arrangement. The casualties recorded in Akwa Ibom State occurred in Ini local government exercise to elect a House of Representatives aspirant for Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency. The battle line, our correspondent gathered, was drawn between supporters of the incumbent lawmaker, Emmanuel Ukpong Udo, who is seeking re-election, a former commissioner for agriculture, Dr. Glory Edet, and the incumbent House of Assembly member, Emmanuel Ukoette. Trouble allegedly started when supporters of the three aspirants engaged in a free-for-all over allegations of hijack of ballot materials The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Supol Odiko Macdon, could not respond to calls at the time of filing this report. Although voter apathy characterised the polls, the ruling PDP was declared to have won overwhelmingly across the 31 Local Government Areas by officials. But addressing journalists, Ephraim Inyang-eyen, former Commissioner for Works and later Chief of Staff (CoS) to Governor Udom Emmanuel,  who is seeking to contest Akwa Ibom South Senatorial District, dismissed the polls as “a nullity”, citing the case concerning the disputed Ad-Hoc delegates list used in the conduct of the polls. One person identified as a supporter of the PDP, Michael Isaiah, alias Tompolo, was shot dead in constituency 1 of Ogbia Local Government during the conduct of the PDP State House of Assembly primaries in the 24 constituencies of the state. LEADERSHIP gathered that the incident, which occurred at about 4pm, was instigated during an argument over the authenticity of the delegates list to be used for voting between Hon Richard Ibegu and Jonathan Azibalamawal. The constituency 1 seat was previously occupied by Hon. Mieteme Obodo. However, in other constituencies, the primaries were peaceful with many new faces emerging as candidates of the party in the state. A former deputy chief of staff during the administration of Chief Seriake Dickson, Mrs Ebizi Ndiomu Brown, was declared winner of the Sagbama Constituency 3 Primaries and Hon. Pamoh Werinipre emerged winner of the Kolokuma-Opokuma Constitutuency 1 in the State House of Assembly Primaries. An incumbent, Hon. Gibson Munalayefa won the Ogbia Constituency 2 PDP Assembly Primaries, while Chief Macdonald Igbadiwei won the Southern Ijaw Constituency 4 PDP Assembly Primaries. A one-time speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Monday Obolo Bubou  also won the PDP ticket for the Southern Ijaw Constituency-2 seat. Obolo scored all 6 Ad-Hoc delegates votes. Hon. Bernard Kenebai emerged winner of the Sagbama Constitutuency 2 in the State House of Assembly primary.  Candidates Emerge In Edo Amid Report of Parallel Contest Candidates emerged yesterday in the party’s House of Assembly and House of Representatives primaries as candidates backed by the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki picked the party’s tickets amid reports of parallel primaries by the faction loyal to the South/South vice chairman of the party, Dan Orbih. In Edo Central, Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon Marcus Onobun emerged the candidate for House of Representatives for Esan West/Esan Central/Igueben Federal Constituency. In Oredo local government area which has two constituency seats in the state House of Assembly and one seat in the House of Representatives, Sunny Aguebor emerged as the House of Representatives candidate while Dr Aisosa Amadasun emerged as the House of Assembly candidate for Oredo West and Uyi Omosigho for Oredo East constituency. It was the same result in Edo North as Obaseki’s men including former Speaker, Kabiru Adjoto, emerged as House of Representatives candidate for Akoko-Edo federal constituency while former deputy speaker, Yekini Idaiye and current Commissioner for Community and Chieftaincy, Donald Okogbe, emerged as candidates for House of Assembly for Akoko-Edo Constituency I and II. The commissioner for information, Adaze Ewanta, described the exercise as free and fair and denied report of parallel congress. “Here in Egor, this is the designated place for the primary. All the security agencies are here as you can see, so I am not aware of any parallel primary”.  Okowa’s Daughter Wins, Uduaghan’s Loses, Ibori’s Ties Daughters of incumbent and former governors of Delta State seeking elective positions have won, lost and tied in their primary elections during the PDP primary yesterday. Those in this category are Governor Okowa’s first daughter, Marilyn Daramola, Ika North East at the state assembly; Orode Uduaghan, daughter of former governor Emmanuel Uduaghan, eyeing Warri North seat at the state assembly and Hon Erhitake Ibori-Suenu, also eyeing Ethiope East/Ethiope West federal constituency seat While Marilyn, former senior special assistant (SSA) on girl child matters to Governor Okowa, won the primary, Orodje, former senior special assistant on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to Governor Okowa, lost while Erhitake, incumbent lawmaker at the state assembly tied in her primary with the incumbent, Ben Igbakpa.  Jigawa, Sokoto Adopt Consensus In Jigawa State, the PDP primary election for the tickets to House of Representative was conducted peacefully across all the constituencies in the state. Most of the party’s candidates emerged through consensus while some emerged unopposed at the eleven constituencies for the House of Representatives and thirty constituencies for the state House of Assembly. Speaking to LEADERSHIP, one of the party stalwarts in Jigawa Stat,  Malam Ibrahim Gambo Guri, said prior to the election date, the party leaders had conducted series of meetings with aspirants and party delegates to ensure the election went smoothly. Also speaking at the party Headquarter in Dutse, the Jigawa state PDP chairman Hon Babandi Ibrahim Gumel commended the party delegates and candidates for exhibiting maturity and patriotism during the election. PDP candidates for Sokoto State House of Assembly and House of Representatives in next year’s general elections have emerged. The 30 candidates for the state House of Assembly and 11 for the House of Representatives emerged through consensus arrangements. The party organising secretary, Abubakar Shuni, who disclosed this to our correspondent said, “The party adopted the option of consensus in deciding the candidates for both state House of Assembly and House of Representatives respectively. In Adamawa State, Alhaji Abbah Girei defeated the incumbent Ja’afar Ribadu by 60 against 39 votes in the primary to represent Girei, Yola-North and Yola-South. Also, 14 House of Assembly members were renominated. The exercise was conducted in all the 25 State Assembly constituencies on Sunday. Dave Ioryabe, chairman of electrical committee, said the election was free and fair. Other results from the remaining seven constituents were pending last night. The incumbent representing AMAC/Bwari federal constituency, Hon. Micah Jiba, won the PDP primaries for the constituency to run for second term in office. Jiba got all the 68 votes from the delegates to defeat two other aspirants, Onyogu Raymond and Abdurahman Ismaila, who both scored 0. Alhaji Yahaya Belo, FCT resident electoral commissioner, described the primaries as peaceful, free and fair. In Gombe State, the exercise ended late in some local governments. In Balanga local government, 61 delegates cast votes for Balanga/Billiri federal constituency as one delegate was absent. The winner, Ali Isa, scored 43 votes to beat nine other contestants. In Ondo State, the PDP has declared the primary election for Akure South constituency 11 in the Ondo State House of Assembly inconclusive. This followed a tied vote between two of the five aspirants vying for the assembly seat held at the Goodness Event Hall, Akure. After counting the 15 votes, Adeniran Adeolu polled six votes while Olayeye Gbangba also got six votes. The chairman of Lagos State chapter of the PDP, Phillip Aivoji, has called for the cancellation of state Assembly and House of Representatives primaries. Avoji, who stated this while briefing journalists in Lagos in company of members of the state executives and four of the six gubernatorial aspirants, including Dr. Ade Dosunmu, Engineer Deji Doherty, Jimi Kamal and Rhodes Vivor Gbadebo, said the cancellation became necessary because the list of ad-hoc delegates the committee which supervised the primaries came with was different from the one that emerged at the state congress.  Uncertainty In Imo Over PDP, APC Primaries Apprehension and uncertainty are trailing the PDP and APC primary elections in Imo State. The primaries, which were earlier scheduled to commence on Sunday with House of Assembly aspirants, have been postponed indefinitely. While the PDP postponed the date for its primaries indefinitely, the APC said it had also shifted the House of Assembly primaries and would conduct the Federal House primaries in all Federal Constituencies yesterday. However, sources close to LEADERSHIP indicated that the shift in date of the PDP primaries was connected to the various litigations and cancellations of statutory delegates list. Speaking with LEADERSHIP, the Imo State PDP publicity secretary, Hon. Emenike Nmeregini, said the House of Assembly primary election could not hold as scheduled because of litigations and cancellations by INEC. In Kwara State, the State House of Assembly and House of Representatives primaries of the PDP were held under a peaceful atmosphere. There were no reports of violence from the centres where the primaries were held across the state, with winners also emerging.  A 2019 governorship aspirant and retired police officer, Alh Ibrahim Ajia won the party’s primary election for Asa/Ilorin West federal constituency in the House of Representatives. Ajia was declared winner after polling 82  out of the total 89 votes cast at the  poll.  Ajia beat two other aspirants – a former member of the Kwara State House of Assembly, Engr Sulyman Warah, who scored five votes, and  Olanrewaju Oba-Aluko who scored one vote.  Also, a grassroot politician and former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. AbdulWahab Issa, scored 36 votes to pick the PDP ticket for Ilorin East/South constituency.  Issa beat Yusuf Saka Eletu who polled 31 votes and an incumbent member of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Raheem Agboola, who scored one vote.  A delegate and former state commissioner for Health, Alhaja Ayinke Saka, lauded the outcome of the exercise and expressed confidence that the PDP would win in the 2023 general elections in the state.  The chairman of the Electoral Committee for the House of Representatives’ primary, Alhaji Isiaka Owolabi, described the exercise as peaceful and applauded delegates for their orderly conduct.  In his remarks, the PDP candidate for Asa/Ilorin West Federal Constituency, Ibrahim Ajia, said his victory at the primary signposted a brighter day for the party to return to power in 2023.  In Niger State, the PDP congress ended peacefully and some results of the State House of Assembly have been released.  As of the time of filing this report, the collation was on in some areas especially that of House of Representatives.  Already the results of Chanchaga Federal Constituency have been concluded with Audu Buba winning and Aminu Garba going for state assembly  Also released were results of Paikoro state constituency won by Nasir Jankaru, Bosso state Constituency won by Pyawu Saidu, Shiroro won by Andrew Doma.  Others released were that of Suleja won by Alhasssan Gwagwa.  Late arrival of officials to supervise the conduct of the Plateau State PDP primaries for the House of Assembly and House of Representatives affected the smooth conduct of the exercise slated for yesterday.  Our correspondent who monitored the exercise at Lamonde hotel, Langfield Resort, Kanke, Jos South and Bassa LGA observed that most of the venues of the exercise were empty with no officials in sight. However, at the party secretariat located at Yakubu Gowon Way Jos, the secretary of the party, Hon. Yakubu Gwot Chocho, yesterday was seen addressing the delegates, urging them to be patient as the delay was caused by late arrival of officials from Abuja.  In Enugu State, some aggrieved delegates of the PDP held parallel congress in different parts of the state.  Some of the delegates, who spoke to journalists, claimed that they were not allowed to enter the venue of the primary election.  But it was gathered that the primary election was peaceful in most parts of the states.  Some of the delegates who spoke to our correspondent said the primary election was successful and took place in approved areas.  