The report of a clash between operatives of the Nigerian police and their counterparts of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Imo State is as befuddling as it is embarrassing, especially as Imo has been the hotbed of recurring killings, which demand closer harmony between the security operatives. Recently, two persons were shot dead and others wounded after some police operatives allegedly opened fire on the headquarters of the NSCDC in Owerri, the Imo State capital. It was reported that the policemen’s action followed the arrest and detention of a policeman in NSCDC custody on the orders of the state commandant of the Corps. According to media reports, the policeman in question had broken into the convoy of the state commandant who, at the time, was returning from a trip to Abaezi in Ohaji/Egbema local government area where an explosion in an illegal refinery claimed no fewer than 100 lives. The report indicated that the policeman was dressed in mufti, drove in an unmarked vehicle and was trailing the convoy to the NSCDC office necessitating the commandant’s order for his arrest and detention. However, typical of Nigerian security personnel who delight in acting in an above-the-law manner, especially when one of their own is involved, some policemen reportedly stormed the headquarters of the NSCDC and forcefully rescued their detained colleague, an action that led to the ensuing clash. An NSCDC source said the policemen on arrival opened fire and beat up a female officer at the command. At the end, two persons were killed while some others were injured. The fundamental questions begging for answers include: did the police officer break into the convoy of the NSCDC commandant? Was he in mufti and never introduced himself? Why should the police forcefully break into the headquarters of a sister agency? There is clearly no justification for the action of some men of the Nigerian police force more so that there has been no report refuting allegations that the detained policeman was in mufti, broke into the NSCDC Commandant’s convoy and was driving in an unmarked car. Even supposing that the policeman was unjustly arrested and detained by a sister agency, is forceful rescue, which led to the loss of two precious lives in a state that residents are daily being inundated with reports of killings by unknown gunmen, the fitting thing to do? More than anything else, the altercation is reminiscent of the seemingly endless acrimony and needless hostility between the police and the NSCDC operatives, both of whom are supposed to safeguard Nigerians’ lives and property. As a newspaper, we are worried that this display of acrimony and the clear lack of synergy among the security agencies may well be responsible for the seeming difficulty in halting the needless killings in Imo and other parts of the country. In other countries, security agencies cooperate, synergise and frequently share intelligence since the overall aim is the safety and security of the residents. However, that does not seem to be the case in Nigeria. We cannot imagine the possibility of such cooperation and intelligence sharing in an atmosphere of distrust, mutual suspicion, disregard and utter disrespect that symbolise the recent clash between operatives of the nation’s two security agencies in Imo. Essentially, the clash has underscored the urgent need for the leadership of the nation’s security agencies and indeed, top managers of our security architecture, to work out modalities, if there is none, that will engender closer collaboration between the security agencies. Until the security operatives working in the nation’s different security agencies cooperate by seeing themselves as complementing one another’s work and not adversaries, the dream of a secure Nigeria where crime rate is reduced may well be a tall order. There has to be an end to this seeming mistrust that currently exists between especially the police and the NSCDC because its continuation is counterproductive to the desire of Nigerians for safety of lives and property. For the Imo clash, it is our considered opinion that an independent enquiry should be conducted and all those found wanting made to face the full wrath of the law, as the act amounts to an embarrassment to not just the security agencies involved, but the entire nation. The nation cannot afford a scuffle between its security agencies, certainly not at a time like this.