Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, has anointed the Senator representing Kaduna Central, Uba Sani, as the preferred governorship candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 elections in the state. LEADERSHIP gathered that the governor made the decision after meeting with some of the governorship aspirants on the platform of the party. Sources familiar with the meeting said the decision has thrown the camp of Senator Sani into a frenzy believing that the coast is now clear for the lawmaker to succeed Governor El-Rufai in 2023. It was also learnt that the governor asked his former Chief of Staff and the the immediate-past Commissioner for Budget and Planning, Muhammed Sani Abdullahi, popularly known as Dattijo, to pick the nomination forms for Kaduna Central senatorial district to replace Senator Sani. A source privy to the outcome of the meeting said Dattijo has accepted the decision of his political mentor and boss, Governor El-Rufai while pledging to work for the success of the party in the forthcoming elections in the state. “We met for about three hours. Everyone consented to allow Mallam’s decision to prevail. He has chosen Uba as the flagbearer. “He (Dattijo) has accepted it as the will of Allah SWT. He is loyal to the governor and the party. He is grateful for the support and commitment shown by his supporters and the people of Kaduna State. At the appropriate time, he will address them but it is important that they continue to support the governor and the party. There is no need to speak ill of this decision, which has been accepted by Dattijo,” the source said. The source, who disclosed that Dattijo already picked his governorship nomination forms on Wednesday, hinted that he will be picking the senatorial forms soon as instructed by Governor El-Rufai. Other aspirants, who have shown interest in the APC governorship ticket include a National Commissioner in the National Population Commission (NPC), Dr. AbdulMalik Durungwa; the Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, and the immediate-past chairman of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), Barrister Mukhtar Abdullahi. LEADERSHIP had few days ago reported that the Kaduna State governor’s son, Bashir El-Rufai, has expressed support for Senator Sani, to become the next governor of the State in 2023. Bashir, who took to his verified Facebook page on Saturday, posted pictures of himself with Sani in a sitting room. He wrote: “Ni da Distinguished Senator Governor” meaning ‘I and the Distinguished Senator Governor’. Senator Uba Sani, who represents Kaduna Central senatorial district at the National Assembly had obtained his expression of interest and nomination forms to contest APC governorship ticket. The lawmaker said he was out to consolidate the legacy of his boss and incumbent governor of the state, El-Rufai.