Among the new candidates is former commissioner of local government and chieftaincy affairs and chairman of Edati local government council of Niger State Alhaji Isa Liman Kantigi. He won the Niger PDP governorship ticket  yesterday in the race which was shifted from Wednesday to yesterday. In Kaduna State, Hon. Isa Mohammed Ashiru picked the party’s ticket to contest the 2023 general election after defeating five other contestants including a former governor of the state, Muktar Ramalan Yero. In the keenly contested primary election that lasted for hours under very tight security at the Gymnasium Hall of the Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna, 788 delegates from the 23 local government areas of the state decided the fate of the aspirants. At the end of the election, the returning officer, Chief Raymond Dabo, aformer Plateau State PDP chairman declared the results as follows: Isa Mohammed Ashiru Kudan polled 414 votes, Sani Sidi 260, Muktar Ramalan Yero 28, Sani Abbas 15 votes, Haruna Sa’eed, 11 votes, Senator Shehu Sani two votes with 30 Invalid Votes. Dabo declared Ashiru as the winner of the race and returned him as the flag bearer of the party for the 2023 after polling the highest valid vote cast. The leader of Lagos 4 Lagos Movement Olajide Adediran also known as Jandor on Wednesday won the PDP ticket by polling 679 votes, while his sole rival David Kolawole (Dakova) got 20 votes. Other four aspirants in the race withdrew before the primaries started. They were Dr. Ade Dosunmu, Egnr Deji Doherty, Jimi Kamal and Rhodes Gbadebo. Their withdrawal was announced by the chairman of the Lagos PDP Electoral Committee, Mr. Emmanuel Ogidi, when he addressed journalists at the venue of the event. Giving the outcome of the primaries Mr Ogidi said 709 delegates were accredited from 19 local government areas of the state, adding that delegates from Ajeromi Ifelodun were not accredited because they insisted on using their own list of delegates different from the one with him. In his remark, Adediran thanked Allah for his victory and paid tribute to the former leader of his movement, the late Princess Adeniran Adenrele-Ogunsanya, who died early this year. The senator representing Cross River Central at the National Assembly Sandy Ojang Onor has clinched the PDP governorship ticket in Cross River State. Onor won with 236 votes to beat Senator Gershom Bassey who scored 175 votes.  Others in the race who featured in the race were Hon. Daniel Asuquo, 147 votes, a female lawyer Imah Nsa Adegoke, scored one vote, Ambassador Nkoyo Toyo, four votes and Coco Bassey had no vote.  The chairman of the PDP Cross River State Congress Governorship Primaries Committee, Babajide Coker declared Onor the winner.