The interior design business has gained popularity these days and has become demanding. An interior designer is someone who has the creativity, skills and knowledge required to design a beautiful and functional space. Proper planning and efforts are the key components of starting an interior designing business. It is a profitable and high-demand venture since many people today hire interior decorators to design their houses and hotels systematically. The competition in the interior business is not very high because not many people opt for interior design which requires creativity and passion. Speaking, the CEO of Ilesunmi Furniture, Mr Ilesunmi Oluroyi says home decoration is a thriving business. Interior decoration is a simple one which does not need a special qualification, but diligence and foresight. “Like me, I was not privileged to have a formal education. I went into making furniture in Kaduna, but I discovered I loved decorating rooms and arranging furniture, and I thought interior decorating business may not be a bad idea. I combined the two together and I am making money. For interior decoration, I earn as high as N200,000 sometimes, depending on the space and location,” he says. He adds “Literally anyone can become an interior decorator. Someone who loves playing with colours, fabrics and textiles can become a decorator. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but educational background is also important. Interior decorators are paid to make homes and businesses suit the tastes of their owners. A good interior decorator can combine his own vision with the wishes and budget of his customers to turn physical spaces into places of beauty.” Business Tips To start an interior design business, you need to: Decide on the services you want to offer. The first thing you want to plan are the types of services you will offer. As an interior designer, you want to make sure you are not taking on more than you can handle. If you only want to design kitchens & baths, for example, you need to make it clear from the get-go. Focus on your style and your specialty. If you specialise in mid-century modern style or rustic style or traditional style, that is what you should focus on. That is not to say you need to only take on clients that share your style, but when you start an interior design business, you want to be targeting your ideal clients. Choose a catchy business name and register it with Corporate Affairs Commission. Create a nice website. As an interior designer, you create beautiful spaces, so, when you start an interior design business, you need a website that matches your career. Conclusion Interior business is a profitable business to start. Its popularity has grown immensely over the last few years. If you have a deep understanding of business skills and are blessed with creativity, you can consider starting an interior design business. 