The Nigeria Baseball and Softball Association (NBSA), the Embassy of Japan in Nigeria and Japan-Africa Baseball and Softball (J-ABS) Foundation signed the MoU during a ceremony at the MKO Abiola National Stadium, Abuja at the weekend. Japanese Ambassador to Nigeria, Kazuyoshi Matsunaga, while making his remarks at the occasion, said the baseball sport would help kids learn democratic ideas, respect for rules, and build peace. He added the sport will create opportunities for young Nigerians to explore their talents and add something meaningful to their lives. “I believe that there is great potential for the sport, especially community sport, as it has a unique way of making a positive impact in the society. “It allows participation of people of all backgrounds and abilities. It allows the players to experience joy, form connections and build communities among themselves,” Matsunaga said. President of J-ABS, Shinya Tomonari told reporters that the objective of the MoU was to develop the game in Nigeria, stressing that the five-year partnership with NBSA would focus on what they termed the “Nigeria Baseballership Development Plan”. “The MoU is aimed at creating a bright future for Africa and Japan by promoting the values of baseball and softball between both countries”. He noted that his experience while working as manager of the Ghana national baseball team in 1997 led him to establish the Association for Friends of African Baseball (AFAB) in 2003. “The AFAB was renamed J-ABS in 2021 “Baseball development is not simply about promoting baseball. The true purpose is to help young people learn the values of discipline, respect and justice”. “This is the hallmark of traditional baseball in Japan, which is the number one-ranked country in the sport. “The Japanese style of baseball is known to promote human development and is one of the reasons why the sport is popular and supported by the Japanese public,” the former said. He said that through the MoU there is hope to promote an exchange between Nigeria and Japan in order to strengthen the ties between both countries for more projects in the future. In her remarks, the acting President of NBSA, Monisola Makunjuola, expressed appreciation to the two other bodies for supporting and donating equipment for the growth of the game. She described it as a new dawn for the Association. “We are optimistic that this new beginning, as it affects schools and sports, will teach important life lessons to our young lads in the areas of discipline, hard work, commitment and teamwork. 