No fewer than 23,256 customers of First City Monument Bank(FCMB) will emerge as winners at the end of the six months of ‘FCMB Millionaire Promo Season 8.’ Every month, at least 3,876 winners will be rewarded. Announcing the 8th edition of the promo, the bank said, the initiative will reward and empower new and existing customers of the bank with exciting prizes, saying the promo has gone fully digital. The FCMB Millionaire Promo Season 8, which commenced in April, is expected to end in September and is available to customers via the bank’s Mobile App and WinCity. WinCity is the gaming platform of the bank, designed to engage, promote positive interactions and reward customers’ loyalty to the brand. It is the first digital promo platform in the Nigerian banking industry where customers get to spin a wheel and win fantastic prizes instantly. The platform, according to the bank, democratises access to opportunities to win and enhances transparency of the promo process. Customers, it said,  can visit WinCity as many times as they meet the required conditions of the promo. Speaking on the initiative, the divisional head, Personal Banking, FCMB, Mr. Shamsideen Fashola, said: “we are excited to kick off the 8th Season of the FCMB Millionaire Promo. The promo was designed to reward customers, enhance their overall experience, and promote financial inclusion and a savings culture. “As a responsive and innovative Bank, we are leveraging our Millionaire Promo Season 8 and WinCity gaming platforms to upscale our world-class digital banking offerings to deepen our engagement with customers and reward them in an exciting manner. “We encourage Nigerians to partake in this promo because they stand a chance to join several others who emerged winners in previous editions and have established flourishing businesses.” To participate in the promo, existing customers must increase their savings account balance by N5,000 to get a chance to win up to N1million. New customers can open a savings account via the bank’s Mobile App and fund with a minimum of N5,000.00 to qualify to win up to N1 million. Multiple deposits of N5,000 will increase the chances of getting more keys to play and win exciting prizes via the new FCMB Mobile App or WinCity. Apart from the grand prize winner of N1 million, thousands of other customers will win various cash and airtime rewards. Every month, five customers stand a chance to win N100,000 each; 20 others will smile home with N50,000 each; another 50 will be rewarded with N20,000 each, while 100 customers will receive N10,000 each. In addition, 200 customers stand a chance to win N5,000, and another 500 will go home with N2,000 each, while 1,000 and 2,000 customers will get N1,000 and N500 airtime, respectively.