The Advertising Practitioner Council of Nigeria (APCON) has expressed the need to regulate unwholesome and provocative advertising practices in traditional and new media space by taking urgent steps to allocate statutory laws to clamp down on unethical advertisers who leave the media space on auto-run. This, it said, will yield conformity to global advertising standards to adhere strictly to advertising codes of conducts in media space by regulating practitioners who are properly licensed by APCON to operate in the space. Speaking at a media briefing in Lagos, APCON registrar, Dr. Olalekan Fadolapo argued that the agency has been inundated with petitions from people to regulate the advertising space with regulatory and statutory laws while affirming that, if this is not properly put in check, the media space would be inflamed by religious crisis to demoralise the value system. He noted that APCON would intensify efforts at regulating online digital advertising while describing their activities as embarrassing, unethical, repugnant and provocative. APCON boss hinted that the new move follows a plethora of complaints and petitions from the public to call online media platform owners to order because of reprehensible advertisements adding that, such distasteful advertisements among those promoting rituals, patronage of private parts enlargements, breast enlargement, love portion, and concoctions to provide political powers are unwholesome advertisements, hence, won’t be tolerated as many of those found culpable will be dealt with accordingly. In his words, “everybody needs to align to confirm to advertising laws. We are anticipating pushbacks and we cannot leave the media space unmanaged. We need to clamp down on unethical advertisers because we cannot afford to leave the media space on auto-run.” Fadolapo trend of the exposure of unwholesome advertisements on the online media and has consequently directed APCON to effectively monitor and regulate Online media advertisement. “The resolution passed by the House of Representatives unequivocally directs APCON to ensure that the online advertisement conforms with the prevailing laws of the federation and as such must be made to comply with the provisions of the Nigeria Code of Advertising Practice, sales promotion and other rights and restriction of practice,” he stressed. 