With the naira selling at N590 to the dollar at the parallel market,  the Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON)  said, it has developed a roadmap campaign plan that would salvage the local currency and bridge the wide gap in the exchange rate market. The ABCON National Executive Council(NEC) said, the move to save the naira was agreed by the body at the conclusion of its meeting in Lagos, where it unveiled  strategies to save the local currency, bridge the exchange rate gaps and curb volatility in the forex market. The naira exchanges at N590 to dollar at the parallel market and N418.75 to dollar at the official market creating a rate gap of N171.25 per dollar. According to ABCON president, Alhaji Aminu Gwadabe, there is an urgent need to enhance dollar liquidity in the market and ensure stability of prices in the economy. These steps, he said, would save the local currency and economy from  the impact of  election spending that has kept inflation at double digits for a very long time. Gwadabe disclosed that the depreciation of the naira against global currencies was due to pressure from rising dollar demand without sufficient liquidity to meet the demands from retail end users, manufacturers and other key players in the economy. “The naira has consistently come under serious pressure due to dollar scarcity making it difficult for forex end users, manufacturers and key industry players to access dollar needed to meet their needs. ABCON under my leadership will continue to encourage our members  to play the vital role of closing the exchange rate gaps in the market and reducing widening premium between the parallel market and the official window,” he said. The ABCON boss also called for the creation of BDCs’  Autonomous Foreign Exchange Trading Window (BAFEX) with determined  maximum daily limit  for legible  BDCs to access dollars from banks, autonomous market and diaspora forex widow at the prevailing market prices. He requested for enhancement of existing BDCs’ automation portals to file transaction returns on CBN/ABCON/NFIU/NIBSS portals for effective regulatory monitoring and supervisions. Gwadabe likewise sought for the creation of an automation portal to encourage registration of  undocumented and unlicensed operators for effective monitoring, identification and tracking of their transactions. He said the reluctance of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to open new windows through which foreign exchange can be attracted to the economy remains a key factor in the naira continued fall. Gwadabe stressed that, the non-inclusion of BDCs in the list of channels through which diaspora remittances flow to Nigeria, under the CBN’s guidance and regulation, has reduced the volume of dollar inflows to the economy. According to him,  the World Bank’s latest Migration and Development Brief showed that Sub-Saharan Africa attracting $49 billion in 2021. The bank said, officially recorded remittance flows to low- and middle-income countries  are expected to increase by 4.2 per cent this year to reach $630 billion. Gwadabe said Nigeria’s contribution to the remittances fund is expected to rise when BDCs are allowed to receive funds from Nigerians in Diaspora into the economy. Stating that the BDCs are to perform this role through contactless and digitised  channels that make collections easy and seamless, he added that, there is urgent need to review the guidelines on BDC’s Scope of Operations to include participation in payment space, such as agency banking, Point of Sale (PoS) services, inbound and outbound forex transfers, ATM Forex services, to reflect global business model practiceHe suggested that the BDCs should be allowed to access dollars or diaspora remittances through the autonomous forex windows that enable operators to receive IMTOs proceeds, carry out online dollar operations and Point of Sale (PoS) agency, among others.