The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has approved the initiative of the Abuja Enterprise Agency (AEA), to support the establishment of more micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) through the grant of a 75 per cent discount on the cost of registration of businesses with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC).  The Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr. Olusade Adesola, made this known during the 2nd edition of the FCT-SEB Trade and Entrepreneurial Exhibition event organised by the FCT Secondary Education Board (FCT-SEB), held in Abuja.  Adesola explained that the event was conceived to recognise, encourage and support the grooming of future entrepreneurs, innovators, and traders/craftsmen in the Federal Capital Territory.  The permanent secretary also hinted that in alignment with the vision of Mr. President, the FCT Administration through the Abuja Enterprise Agency has also initiated and sustained various entrepreneurial programmes designed to gainfully engage the youths in the territory.  While calling on as many of the FCT residents to explore opportunities offered by the intervention, Adesola assured of the sustained support of the FCTA for entrepreneurial development.  He further explained that in recognition of the role of youths in nation-building and the need for a paradigm shift towards developing self-sufficient, innovative, and entrepreneurial youths, President Muhammadu Buhari has through various agencies initiated and funded policies and programmes toward the development of the Nigerian youth.  He noted that programmes such as the Youth Entrepreneur Support Programme (YES-P), Presidential Youth Empowerment Scheme (PYES), N-Power Empowerment Programme, Nigeria Youth Investment Fund, etc are all worth noting.  “The inculcation and development of the spirit of trades/craftsmanship, innovation, and entrepreneurship in our youth are at the heart of our industrialization and by implication, our economic development as a nation.  “As we are aware, the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) are a product of the activities of Trade/Craftsmen and Entrepreneurs. We may ask. what role do they play in nation-building?,” he said.  He pointed out that the ongoing financial revolution for financial inclusion is being championed by the youths, noting that FinTechs such as Flutterwaves, Piggyvest, Paga, etc were entrepreneurial efforts of the youth.  Adesola said while there has been a remarkable improvement in the nation’s entrepreneurial journey which has been championed by the youths, he stressed that there was room for improvement considering the youthful demography of the population.  Earlier, the Director of FCT Secondary Education Board, Mrs. Nanre Emeje, said the FCTA Permanent Secretary, who is passionate about the survival of the next generation based on hard work, advised that the exhibition be held annually.  She noted that their target will always be to use the event to showcase the student’s achievements in innovation and seek to market the products therefrom.