The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), has urged the federal government to discard the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) being used for the payment of federal workers’ salaries. The Union, therefore, called for the adoption of University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS) platform to overcome insistences on the IPPIS, which constitute a ridiculous contradiction to the acclaimed anti-corruption posture of the present administration. COEASU while reacting to the fraud allegation against the Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), Ahmed Idris, uncovered by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFFCC) to the tune of N80bn, said the money discovered by EFCC was merely a tip of the cancerous iceberg of wanton fraud enabled by the questionable pay platform operated by the office of the AGF. The president of COEASU, Dr. Smart Olugbeko, in a statement on Thursday, said apart from undermining the statutory functions of the Governing Councils and breaching the establishment integrity of the tertiary education sector in general and the College of Education system in particular, IPPIS opens the payroll up to unilateral manipulations and cool fraud. “The Federal Government has no more excuse for the continued delay in migrating academics in tertiary institutions to the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS), the ingenious alternative pay platform innovated by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). “UTAS adequately addresses our concerns on payroll security and the peculiarities of the tertiary education system in general. It should be adopted for the entire academic staff in tertiary education sector as it takes care of the peculiarities of the institutions including financial autonomy, sabbatical service, administration of discipline and fraud prevention. “In the last one year our COEASU has  received complaints from more than one thousand academic staff in Colleges of Education in Nigeria who have had their salaries stopped, mutilated and or delayed. “IPPIS arbitrarily stopped the salaries of some lecturers for four months in 2021 and the salaries have not been paid till date despite all efforts made to get the salaries paid,” he said. Olugbeko added that IPPIS was notorious for making third party deductions from workers’ salaries for cooperative associations, Union dues, special contributions, etc, without remitting the deductions. “The IPPIS office in Abuja is daily besieged by vice-chancellors, rectors, provosts, bursars, Union leaders and workers to lodge one complain or the other. “This has led to wastage of manpower and resources. The end of every month brings fear as we do not know the ‘style’ of payment IPPIS will unleash on us. In February, this year, our salaries were further reduced by IPPIS without any justification. This charade calls IPPIS must stop! “For the umpteenth time, the Union is calling on the Federal Government to adopt the home-grown UTAS developed by ASUU as a payment platform for academics in the tertiary institutions in Nigeria,” he stated.