President Muhammadu Buhari has once again shown his propensity for taking people by surprise. Many ministers who had political ambition didn’t know what hit them on Wednesday and some have still not recovered from the shock. Recall that the Senate has put a spanner in the works of some government appointees when it inserted a clause in the electoral act that anyone who wishes to contest must resign his appointment before the primaries. Before now it is usually 30 days before the main election and not the primaries. Some went to court saying it is conflicting with the constitution. Most of the ministers openly boasted that they won’t resign as the Constitution backs their continued stay in office. Also, many Nigerians had called on the ministers and some appointees of the government who have the political ambition to immediately resign citing conflicts of interest. Despite the growing calls, none of the ministers bulged as they were prepared to eat their cake and have it. They didn’t know the president had an ace up his sleeve. On  Wednesday out of the blue, the president during the federal executive council meeting ordered every member of the council who has the ambition to contest elective offices must resign on or before May 16th, 2022. Those affected are Ministers of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio; Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige; Science, Technology and Innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; Justice and Attorney General, Abubakar Malami, who have joined the presidential race on the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Others are the Minister of State  Mines and Steel, Uche Ogar, who is running for the governorship position in Abia State, and the Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, who declared her ambition to contest for the senatorial seat in Plateau State. For emphasis the next day, the Secretary to the government of the federation issued another circular saying the president has ordered all heads of agencies, departments, parastatals, and ambassadors with political ambitions to resign. In the circular, Mustapha said President  Buhari had observed and noted the expression of interest and intention by some members of the Federal Executive Council, Heads of Extra-Ministerial departments, agencies, parastatals of government, ambassadors, and other political office holders to contest the upcoming Presidential, Gubernatorial, National and State Assemblies elections. He said the President had directed that the affected office holders aspiring to run for various offices in the 2023 General Elections, should tender their resignation on or before Monday, May 16, 2022. After the memo, 3 ministers resigned that same Wednesday. Some suddenly developed cold feet and were about to make a U-turn on their political ambition. While they were still reeling from the shock, the president on Friday went a step further by organizing a valedictory session for the outgoing ministers which was subtle in telling them, they cannot change their minds again. Speaking at a valedictory session for appointees leaving the cabinet to pursue political ambitions, the President  said: ‘’I do not doubt that if the next President emerges from among former members of this cabinet, like any other aspirant, ample competence and outstanding service delivery would be on display. This will be part of our legacies to Nigerians.’’ The President, who commended the departing public officers for serving the nation sacrificially, ‘’with dignity and honor’’, had at the last FEC meeting on Wednesday, May 11, 2022, directed that all Ministers and other political appointees who aspire to contest for elective offices in the 2023 General Elections should resign their current appointments. ‘’I note that some have complied while others are in the process of doing so. ‘’I would like to use this opportunity to commend your decision and courage to contest for elective offices and your compliance with my directive. ‘’I also wish to thank you for your invaluable services to this nation through your contributions as Cabinet members. ‘’I wish you success in the upcoming elections and your future endeavors,’’ he said. President Buhari told the ministers that looking back as the head of the team over the years, he had fond memories of incisive and robust discussions during cabinet meetings, rendering performance reports during special sessions, and presidential retreats.