He, however, stated that it was only the Hon. Shoddy Ozoeme-led panel mandated to carry out the exercise in the Anambra Central Senatorial zone that conducted the election successfully, and, 3-man adhoc delegates produced in each of the wards in the seven local governments that make up the senatorial zone on May 24, as rescheduled. Meanwhile, LEADERSHIP learnt that a group of PDP members from Anambra North and Anambra South senatorial zone gathered yesterday at the Professor Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre, Awka to elect the adhoc delegates from each of the wards in the two senatorial zones. Major stakeholders of the PDP in Anambra state who attended the Professor Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre delegate election were Chief Chris Uba, Senator Stella Oduah, Hon. Lynda Ikpeazu and Chief Linus Ukachukwu. The 5-member panel from the PDP national headquarters at the venue to conduct the adhoc delegate election was headed by one Hon. Augustine Efere. But just as the committee was conducting the exercise, thugs reportedly invaded the venue, shooting guns sporadically and forced those gathered to flee.  One of the PDP stakeholders, Chief Ngozi Agudosi stated that the delegate election in the two senatorial zones could not hold on May 24 as rescheduled due to the insecurity ravaging the zone, and, which according to him was the reason they exercise was relocated to Awka, the state capital in the Anambra Central Senatorial zone. Meanwhile the party’s administrative secretary in a letter to the Senator Iyorchi Ayu-led NWC of the PDP pleaded with the party national leadership to intervene and save the party. Ajulu in the letter to Ayu wrote “Your Excellency (Iyorchi Ayu), it is with a heavy heart that I inform you once again that I am under serious pressure from some Stakeholders in Anambra North and Anambra South Senatorial Districts of Anambra state to bury the above facts and lie against my conscience. “ Your Excellency, I have said it earlier that I will rather die and meet my Creator in peace than betraying the confidence reposed in me by PDP members in Anambra State. “In the circumstance, I most respectfully urge the National Working Committee of our great Party to consider the facts contained in this letter of complaint and reject any purported results of Ward Congresses emanating from Anambra North and Anambra South senatorial districts as no Ward Congresses took place in the two senatorial districts,” Ajuku stated in the letter. He thereby “Urge the National Working Committee to set up a high powered Disciplinary Committee to investigate the ignoble conduct of some Stakeholders in the two senatorial districts.”  