All Progressive Congress (APC) national leader and presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has promised to build on the current administration’s progress in the agriculture sector if elected president.
Tinubu stated this when he met the party’s delegates from Gombe in the state capital.
He said the friendly and productive dialogue was arranged and hosted by Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya and the state APC chairman, Mr. Nitte Amangal. A statement from his medi ma office said Tinubu spoke on his policy agenda for the nation.
“One of the key areas he talked about is the agricultural sector and the status of farmers. He commended farmers for their hard toil and labour under often challenging conditions.”
He further promised to build on the current administration’s progress made in the sector if elected president. One of the innovative policies he mentioned was the establishment of commodity boards to set minimum prices for strategically-important crops.
The statement added, “A minimum price means that the farmer will be guaranteed an income that will provide a decent livelihood for all the work they do and for the vital contribution they make to the nation.”
It further said that Governor Yahaya described Tinubu as a leader with the uncommon talent to identify talents that can aid the development of the country.
“Asiwaju is a prominent politician, a politician par excellence, a leader of men and a talent hunter,” he said.
Pledging the support of the state’s delegates to the presidential aspirant, the governor said Asiwaju should consider Gombe a second home.
The APC leader thanked the governor and the delegates for their support.
As he moves towards the party nomination, the general election and hopefully the governance of our beloved nation, Asiwaju will continue to reach out and consult broadly. His aim is to form an inclusive government that formulates the best policies and brings progressive good governance to the people. Paying a courtesy call on the Emir of Gombe, Alhaji Abubakar Shehu Abubakar, Asiwaju Tinubu said the royal father is an institution of great history and heritage. “My courtesy call on you is a call of respect and tradition. I have come to seek your prayers and blessing for my presidential aspiration,” he said. The royal father prayed for Tinubu, describing him as a household name in Nigeria’s politics with an impressive track record as a private sector businessman, governor of Lagos, and a proven democrat. Joining Asiwaju Tinubu on the trip were former governor of the state, Senator Kashim Shettima; TETfund Chairman, Alhaji Kashim Shettima; former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Babachir David Lawal; former EFCC Chairman Nuhu Ribadu; presidential aide, Mallam Yau Darazo, and former National Welfare Officer of APC, Alhaji Ibrahim Masari. In his remarks, Senator Shettima said Asiwaju has been a permanent feature of Nigeria’s politics and development since 1992, saying that his understanding of Nigeria’s politics and the economic challenges are almost unparalleled.