After extensive consultations with relevant stakeholders, Ken Nnamani, a former Senate president, finally joined the race for the presidential nomination of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. He hearkened to the yearning of well-wishers and admirers who have followed his political career and feel he can give Nigeria the type of leadership it needs now. Nnamani has a compelling personality and attractive credentials that give him an edge over other aspirants. When his name is mentioned in Nigeria and in diplomatic circles, it resonates with competence and integrity. He became Senate president at a crucial point in the life of Nigeria when democracy was threatened by individual ambition. Under his leadership, the third term agenda was defeated in 2006 but not without political vendetta against him. He stayed stable and in control to the end of his tenure. Had a wrong kobo been found in his account, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, would have hounded him into jail. But he was clean, so much that they honoured him. On December 7, 2007, Senator Nnamani received the Role Model Award in the Fight against Corruption, conferred on him by the EFCC in conjunction with the Code of Conduct Bureau and Independent Corrupt Practices and Related Offences Commission, ICPC, supported by other international agencies like the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. Nnamani entitled his biography ‚Standing Strong‘. Had he not stood strong in those tempting times, the course of Nigeria’s democracy could have been truncated. Some selfless Nigerians feel very strongly that the time has come for the former Senate president to deploy those same qualities to the service of the country as president. His personal philosophy is a soothing balm for a turbulent country. “I see politics as an opportunity to serve the masses and deliver knowledge to the people, and I believe in wealth creation and distribution,” he says. Senator Nnamani finally in February 2016, briefly retired from politics and PDP in a famous statement he entitled “PDP, the Burden and My Conscience.” He spoke passionately from the heart on why he was leaving. “I do not believe I should continue to be a member of the PDP as it is defined today. This is certainly not the party I joined years ago to help change my country. I do not also believe that the PDP as it is managed today will provide an opportunity for me to continue to play the politics of principles and values which I set for myself as a young man on leaving graduate school and working for a large multinational in the United States in the 70s and 80s. Therefore, today I resign my membership of the PDP.” “In stepping out of partisan politics for the meantime, I will continue to be politically engaged. I will also continue to support the government and all the elected officers in Nigeria to repositioning the nation. I will also constructively criticise them when, by commission or omission, they take actions that could damage the prospects of transforming Nigeria into a productive, merit-based and honestly governed country.” He later joined APC, and became the party leader in the South East. Nnamani brings a complete set to APC: character, competence, credibility, experience and accountability, among others. He is a quality aspirant from the South East, who should be elected the party’s presidential flag bearer for the 2023 election as the delegates gather at Abuja this week for the presidential primary. In his presidential declaration speech, entitled “Time to deliver Hope and Prosperity in midst of despair and poverty”, Nnamani pledged to regenerate Nigeria, restore peace and unity, and return the country on the part of prosperity. “I believe that the president in 2023 should be someone who will take the job seriously to the point of inspiring Nigerians and lifting them to a higher level of performance. I did exactly that as President of the Senate. The profile you need to be President is not just your CV. It is mostly your performance in the last high office that counts.” The APC delegates will do well to choose Senator Nnamani. He assures that, “It is time to deliver hope and prosperity in the midst of despair and poverty.”  His forthrightness showed when he condemned the high cost of APC nomination forms.  –Celestine Okafor is a former editor and general manager of LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group.