National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu and serving overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Pastor Tunde Bakare, yesterday submitted their nomination and expression of interest forms, with a promise that they would congratulate the winner of the presidential primary election and return home if they lose out. Addressing journalists after submitting Tinubu’s forms at the International Conference Centre, Abuja yesterday, former secretary to government of the federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal, however said he was hopeful that Tinubu will clinch the APC presidential ticket. He said, “He (Tinubu) is a democrat. Every politician should not be afraid of the election because the probabilities are two: either you win or lose. So if we lose at the convention we go back home, we lick our wounds and prepare to support the winner if he emerges in a free and fair manner. “There are no challenges. We are politicians; we have been in this game for many years, whatever challenges there are we’ve already converted them into opportunities.” Lawal said President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive that ambitious Ministers should resign was not a threat to Tinubu. “How can it be a threat? The more the merrier. We are democrats and we believe that if there are one million contestants on the platform of APC we will carry the majority of the delegates at the convention. So, the more the merrier, they are all welcome. “Well, we feel elated that today we have come to submit the winning form and we have complied with one of the major requirements of the party for contesting for presidency on the platform of APC. We’ve done all that is required; we’ve submitted all the required documents as you can see we have received our acknowledgement copy and we’re confident victory will be ours come 30th May during the convention.” On his part, Pastor Bakare pledged to abide by the rules governing the APC presidential convention, even as he said he has faith in God that he will clinch the party’s presidential ticket. Speaking after submitting his presidential expression of interest and nomination forms, Bakare said he has met the requirement and that the ball was now in the party’s court to do the needful. He stated, “We have fulfilled our own side and it is now for the party to set the stage and to tell us what next. They will determine what next. What I know for now is that there will be screening and after screening for those who may have appeal, they will appeal. “Thereafter, there will be primaries and by the grace of God, we have decided to run according to the rules and we expect to win by His special grace. My chances are as bright as that of any person. I am eminently qualified either by age or experience or everything that counts in this race. “Anyone who participates in a race must run according to the rules. And I trust God that I will emerge the winner”. Bakare also expressed commitment to the realisation of a new Nigeria in his lifetime, promising to be the bridge between the past, present and the future.