Special adviser on media and publicity to the president, Mr Femi Adesina, has commended the Presidential Dairy Magazine, for its credibility and fairness to the President Muhammadu Buhari administration in its reportage. Adesina stated this at the magazine’s 6th anniversary conference and award ceremony held in Abuja recently. He said that every government needs encouragement but for this government all they hear is complaints, criticisms and different kinds of unfounded stories here and there. He said that is why they need to appreciate something like the Presidential Dairy. “It gives encouragement, support. When you take a copy of the presidential dairy magazine you are happy that, yes, this is a publication that recognizes what the Buhari administration is doing and it also resolves to disseminate it to the general public. “No government will be happy to see its citizens killed. But when you hear the narrative in the country today, it is as if it is the government that is even interested in the killings of Nigerians. “This is a government which has done extremely well in the area of security more than any government in the history of this country. It has equipped the Armed Forces with platforms and equipment. “I think when this government came the Air Force had about two or three serviceable fighter jets but today, there are over 20, all procured by the Buhari administration. The same you will find in the Navy, the same you will find in the Army. It has equipped our military so much that when another government comes it does not need to start from there again. It will just continue. “But do you know what? There is not a single word of appreciation from most circles in Nigeria and what I like to say is that everybody, including you and I, needs appreciation from time to time. If you want to be honest with yourself, this administration has built infrastructure such as roads, rail and bridges.” In his keynote address, an associate professor at the Mass Communication Department, Nile University of Nigeria, Abuja, Murtada Busair Ahmad, who also appreciated Presidential Dairy Magazine, said that journalism should not have been established without politics and the existence of journalism from ages is not without that of politics. “When you talk about good governance which is the topic of today, we students of politics and journalism, we always go to the literature to look at the existence of knowledge of what scholars have said concerning those concepts,” Ahmed said. In his remarks the editorial adviser of Presidential Dairy Magazine, Dr Abubakar Jimoh, disclosed that they started the magazine in 2015, when Nigerians were clamouring for change and that was the momentum that ushered in President Muhammadu Buhari. 