Providus Bank has launched ProvidusEco, a contactless card created with biodegradable materials, making it Nigeria’s first eco-friendly debit card. Speaking at the launch of the eco friendly which coincided with marking this year’s Earth Day, the managing director and chief executive of the bank, Mr. Walter Akpani, said, the “ProvidusEco contactless card will in the first instance be released under the Platinum MasterCard brand. The impact of human activities on the environment and the resultant effects on changing climate conditions, is perhaps the most important issue facing humanity today and as stakeholders, whether as corporate entities or just as humans who consume the resources that nature has gifted us with, it is our responsibility to act responsibly in a bid to save the earth for future generations.” The bank’s CEO stated that as an institution, ProvidusBank continues to prioritise offerings that enhance customer experience and the safety of business delivery on all fronts, which is why the bank is introducing Nigeria’s first eco-friendly card to boost the appeal of its card offerings, especially, as it affects the environment in which it operates. He noted that, more than 90 per cent of plastic cards are made of Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) which is one of the main sources of Dioxin emission, and this has a bad influence on the human body and the natural environment. Akpani also intimated guests at the event about other efforts ProvidusBank has made to mitigate risk on the environment. “It is important for me to point out that one of the steps that we have taken to reduce our carbon footprint is to reduce the amount of paper we deploy to deliver our cards to our customers. “Hitherto, we would print our Welcome Package in glossy well-designed booklets with a welcome letter. I am happy to let you know that this has been drastically reduced to just call-card-size QR code experience that delivers all the information you would require on your smartphone,” he stressed. While speaking at the event, founder/executive director of T.R.E.E. Initiative, Mr. Sola Kolawole, opined that, “the decision to be part of unique Ecosystem Restoration Plan, which seeks to plant a tree for every ProvidusEco Debit Card issued to customers is not just innovative but an unprecedented climate action by any bank in Nigeria.”