A team of researchers at the Federal University Dutse has discovered species of mosquitoes in Jigawa State that are resistant to most of the insecticide treated nets. However, the research revealed that some exceptional insecticides proved effective on all the mosquitoes. This report was contained in a press statement released by the chief information officer of the University Comrade Abdullahi Anako. The research which was sponsored by the Global Programme for Malaria Control under the Surveillance for Mosquitoes Resistance against three classes of insecticides (Pyrethroids, organochlorine, and organophosphates) in the 36 states of the federation plus the Federal Capital Territory. It was also revealed that, the research was conducted in the university led by Professor M.M.Dogara. According to Dogara, the research became necessary when it became obvious that mosquitoes all over the world were developing resistance to Long Lasting Insecticides Treated Bed Nets(LLITN) coated with pyrethriod insecticides. He said they identified mosquito breeding sites and collected samples of larvae from six local governments in Jigawa which includes Dutse, Birnin-Kudu, Kafin-Hausa ,Auyo, Ringim and Taura. The lead researcher said they collected mosquito larvae from these sites and grew them to adulthood in the laboratory where they were sorted into males and females before conducting the test to see their resistance to insecticides. He said the female anopheles mosquitoes with variants such as anopheles gambicae, anopheles collonzi and anopheles arabiansis are all resistant to bed nets coated with Pyrethroids, organnochlorine and organophosphate insecticides. According to him, the research finding shows that only primiphosmethl insecticides kills mosquitoes 100 percent and their recommendation is that henceforth only bed nets coated with Primiphosmethl should be deployed to Jigawa. Dogara expressed his gratitude to the vice- chancellor, Prof. Abdulkarim Sabo Mohammed, who was instrumental to the winning of the N4 million research grant from the donors because institutions competed to get the grant and at the end FUD was chosen. He said his team consisted of six entomology investigators, technicians and six mosquito collectors.