Niger State governor Abubakar Sani Bello said over N200 million has been saved by his administration through the screening of pensioners at the state and local government levels. The governor represented by the secretary to the state government (SSG), Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, stated this during the celebration of the differed International Workers Day by the Niger State Council of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) held at the Idris Legbo Kutigi Conference Center in Minna yesterday. The governor said that the unclaimed pension is the outcome of a committee headed by commissioner for agriculture, Engineer Ibrahim Panti. Consequently, he posited that from the amount of money that the government has been able to save, both from pensions and salaries, the state workers can be assured of constant payment of salaries, pensions and gratuities. The governor said “the struggle for the welfare of workers is dynamic and we must continue to strengthen it. We must continue to identify our little contributions towards quality development of the civil service without any element of sabotage.” He said that the state government will continue to partner with the organized labour in the state and provide strength, confidence and comfort to enhance productivity among workers. In his speech, Niger State NLC chairman, Comrade Yakubu Garba said that the theme for the International Labour Day, “Labour, Politics and the Quest for Good Governance and Development in Nigeria” shows the resolve of the organised labour in Nigeria to fully participate in the 2023 political process and beyond. Comrade Garba said, “ The status quo of the political process must change to address the challenges bedevilling Nigeria which include escalating insecurity, rising inflation, economic hopelessness and hardship”. He made 21 demands to the state government which included the government stepping up action to ensure that the state is secured especially as the rainy season approaches so that farmers can engage in farming activities safely. 