The Grassroot Mobilisation Initiative for Good Governance has tasked delegates of the various political parties in the country to ensure the election of credible candidates that would work in the interest of the country. The group after a situation assessment meeting held in Abuja on Monday, May 26, 2022, attended by the chairman, Board Of Trustees, Mr Joseph Yobo, national coordinator, Samaila Musa, the national secretary Barr Tracy Kanu- Ejim and members of the Board Of Trustees, national executives and all zonal and state coordinators, examined the events unfolding in the buildup to the 2023 general election and called on political parties delegates to be prudent in the election of candidates. The group noted the rising level of desperation particularly for the various parties’ presidential tickets adding that the usual desperate efforts being exerted by politicians to gain the support of their parties’ delegates by every means including financial seduction is at an alarming rate. “With the emerging trends in the country that are pregnant with complications and unforeseen consequences, it has become imperative to call the attention of all the various party delegates as to whom responsibility would ultimately lie if democracy and the future of Nigerian children become endangered. “This is important and urgent as already, the presidential nominating contests in the two major parties: the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are causing apprehension to the extent that they may not vote competent nominees who are credible and efficiently ready to govern or even represent the interests of a majority of the parties’ supporters. “We are thus compelled by decent patriotism and love of country and fellow citizenship to act quickly to call the attention of delegates in all the parties to the need for caution, extra prudence and vigilance in the discharge of the solemn responsibility of selecting credible candidates to be presented to the Nigerian voters. “It is important to point out here that the fate of the entire country and future of democracy is solely dependent on the manner in which the party delegates discharge the candidate selection role entrusted in them. “The delegates who are by every implication, representatives of the various and collective interests of the entire nation for the moment, must therefore resist every temptation that would make them betray the trust reposed on them by God and man. As they go about discharging this trust, they must bear in mind that Nigerian voters would at the end of the day be left with no option than to be bound to the limited space for choice among the only alternatives presented for them irrespective of their credibility and merit or the lack of same. “We, therefore, call on all party delegates to eschew personal temptations and place the nation’s interest and the future of our children above every other consideration. Delegates must avoid costly adventures that would end up producing incompetent and inept political leaders who will continue to exploit the people, thereby thriving on emotional-driven courses, sowing seed of communal discord, causing divisions and leaving the people more unsecured and impoverished,” the statement reads in part.      