The ongoing primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) recorded more victories and losses yesterday, with former governor of Enugu State, Senator Chimaraoke Nnamani and Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi winning the senatorial primaries in their respective districts. Nnamani defeated a former chief of staff, Ifeoma Nwobodo, at the primary held at Agbani with 243 votes,  while Ugwuanyi defeated  Eze Godwin with 299 votes to pick the ticket for Enugu North Senatorial Zone. The governor picked the ticket at the primaries of the PDP held at the Nsukka Stadium in Nsukka local government area of the state. Announcing the results, the returning officer, Yandev Ammabai, said Ugwuanyi polled 299 votes to defeat his closest rival, Eze Godwin who scored 16 votes, while Godsmack Ugwu and Okanye Celestine recorded zero votes. The primary election, which witnessed large turnout of supporters of all the aspirants was eventually conducted after it was shifted from Monday due to the Mondays’ sit-at-home in the Southeast. The governor is seeking to replace Chukwuka Utazi, the incumbent senator representing the district. Enugu North senatorial district consists of six LGAs: Nsukka, Udenu, Igbo-Eze North, Igbo-Eze South, Igbo Etiti and Uzo-Uwani. Former PDP national organising secretary, Col Austin Akobundu (rtd), also emerged the party’s candidate for Abia Central senatorial district. A two-term serving senator representing Kaduna South senatorial district, Senator Danjuma Laah, however lost at the primaries to former House of Representatives member, Hon. Sunday Marshal Katung, in a keenly contested party poll. Still in Kaduna, a former member of the House of Representatives for Soba federal constituency, Barrister Khalid Ibrahim Soba, emerged the winner of Kaduna North senatorial district unopposed. The returning officer of the election, Prof Banake Sambo, declared that Soba scored a total number of 257 votes and “having satisfied the election requirements and scored the highest number of votes, I hereby announce Khalid Ibrahim Mustapha as the winner of the PDP Senatorial primary election in Zone one of Kaduna state.” Similarly, the 2019 Kaduna Central senatorial candidate, Lawal Adamu, popularly called Mr LA defeated five other aspirants to pick the ticket again. In the election result declared by the returning officer for Kaduna Central Senatorial district, Dr  Adamu Bangalam, declared that Ibrahim Usman polled  84 votes, Lawal Adamu polled 99 votes,  Sen Musa Bello polled 43 votes, Dr Ahmad Inuwu polled  15 votes, Prof Usman Muhammad polled  2  votes, while the woman in their midst, Hajiya Talatu Shehu polled 5 votes. Declaring the results for Kaduna South Senatorial district, the presiding officer, Hon Sabo Babayaro, declared Sunday Marshall Katung winner after  polling 112 votes to defeat serving Senator, Danjuma Tella La’ah, who polled 74 votes and Nicholas  Shehu Garba Sarkin Noma  who trailed behind with 52 votes, followed by Samson Monday Dikko  who polled 21 votes and Jagaba Adams Jagaba  who secured seven votes. Barrister Mark Jacob and Suleiman Dauke scored zero votes. The abducted son of Prof Ango Abdullahi, Sadik Ango, who was among the 61 abducted passengers on the March 28, 2022 train attack and still in captivity, won the primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Sabon Gari federal constituency in Kaduna State. His father, Prof Ango Abdullahi, who is the convener of Northern Elders Forum (NEF) disclosed this to journalists in an interview. It would be recalled that there were reports that trended on social media and conventional media that the son of Ango had been released by his abductors, a story his father denied thereafter. The elder statesman who was happy over the development expressed optimism that his son would soon be reunited with the family as efforts are being made to secure his release together with others still in captivity. In a similar development, Hon. Yakubu Umar Barde, a 5th termer in the Green Chambers defeated other 6 aspirants to pick the PDP ticket for the Chikun/Kajuru House of Representatives. Barde polled 45 votes out of the 65 votes cast to emerge winner and was closely followed by a serving two term House of Assembly member representing Kajuru constituency, Hon. Tanko Samuel Ubakato, who polled 12 votes and Alhaji Muhammad Jumare Shaibu who polled 8 votes, while the rest of the aspirants scored zero votes in the results declared by the returning officer, Mrs Elizabeth Abuth. Another serving House Representatives member, Hon Samaila Suleiman, secured the PDP ticket for Kaduna North federal constituency. In Zamfara, two former ministers emerged senatorial candidates in the just concluded PDP senatorial primaries in state. They are former minister of Environment, Col Bala Mande (rtd) and  minister of Information during the administration of late Umar Musa Yar, Adua, Ikra Aliyu Bilbis. Bilbis clinched the Zamfara Centrall ticket with114 votes, while his opponent, Dr. Na Allah Isa got only two votes. Former minister of Environment, Colonel Bala Mande (rtd), contested unopposed for Zamfara North Senatorial zone. Similarly, a former member of Zamfara State House of Assembly, Bello S/Fagon, also contested unopposed for Zamfara West Senatorial zone. Announcing the results, the primary election committee chairman sent to the state by the national headquarters of PDP, Kabiru Usman, said the elections were free and fair. Meanwhile, in Benue, delegates from the seven local government areas that make up the state North West senatorial district yesterday endorsed Governor Samuel Ortom as candidate of the PDP for next year’s general election. Governor was in March this year  endorsed as the sole PDP senatorial candidate by the stakeholders from the zone to contest the Senate seat. In zone A, popularly called Benue North East senatorial district, the former governor and current Senator representing the zone, Senator Gabriel Suswam, was also returned unopposed as the sole candidate of the zone. Our correspodent report that even though Suswam was unopposed because no aspirant bought nomination forms from the zone, the former governor insisted that due process should be followed and election was conducted in the presence of INEC officials and election observers where he got a block votes of 259 votes Speaking to journalists shortly after he was declared winner by the returning officer for the election in Makurdi, Governor Ortom expressed appreciation to the people of the zone for always standing with him. He said, “I am pleased to be given another opportunity to serve the state at the Senate at the expiration of my tenure as governor”. The governor also pledged his commitment to continue to do his best in service to the people of the state, saying “the interest of the people will always be my priority.” In zone C, popularly known as Benue South Senatorial district, three aspirants contested for the Senate seat with the incumbent senator Abba Moro. At the end of voting, Moro got 179 to defeat Hassan Saleh, Joseph Ojobo  and Bright Ogaji who got 72, 53 and 3 votes respectively.