The Federal Government in its continuous drive to promote local sufficiency, has awarded the Managing Director of SecureID Limited, Mrs. Kofo Akinkugbe, with the 2022 National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) Award as part of efforts to encourage high level of productivity, hardwork and excellence among Nigerian entrepreneurs. She was presented with the award by President Muhammadu Buhari during the 19th National Productivity Day (NPD) at the Banquet Hall, State House, Abuja on Thursday. Indeed, the National Productivity Day was instituted by the Federal Government through the Ministry of Labour and Employment to promote local production of goods and services, as well as reward indigenous entrepreneurs who are contributing to the growth of the economy. Speaking on the Award, Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, said, “Mrs. Kofo Akinkugbe’s recommendation was based on the report of the National Productivity Order of Merit Award Committee after a rigorous selection process.” While receiving the award, Mrs. Akinkugbe said as Africa’s Industry leader in card manufacturing and technology, SecureID will continue to be a trailblazer in the Smartcard and technology industry in the African region. “It is a good thing to be recognised by the Nigerian Government, it means a lot to us as an organisation, it is an affirmation that we are doing something right and we will continue to do our best to contribute our own quota to the development of the Nigerian economy,” she said. Speaking further on the company’s services, she observed that aside from the manufacturing of smart cards, they also manufacture SIM cards used in mobile phones for mobile telecom operators in Nigeria. She added, “We are also into the manufacturing and supply of security-featured cards such as Driver’s license, National Identity Cards, Permanent Voter Cards, State Resident Multifunctional Cards, and Health Cards, amongst others.” She emphasised how the company has benefitted the Nigerian economy, adding that the company has increased export revenues for Nigeria and is contributing to creating and promoting local sufficiency across Africa. In her words; “We have also saved the nation significant amounts in foreign exchange previously expended on the importation of bank cards, SIM cards, high-security documents and digital solutions.” The CEO mentioned that SecureID company has impacted on the economy and is currently helping the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to maximise profit by designing and implementing the Digital Ticketing and Fare Collection System recently deployed on the train service. “With the introduction of the Digital Ticketing and Fare Collection System, we have not only been able to increase government revenue but also make operations seamless and easier for stakeholders and travellers alike,” he concluded. SecureID Limited is Africa’s leading and Nigeria’s first local brand when it comes to manufacturing all kinds of smartcards, with a vast clientele across the African continent. The company is certified by Visa International, MasterCard Incorporated, Verve, Card Quality Management (CQM) and ISO 9001/2015 for Smart Card manufacturing and personalisation of credit and debit cards for banks in Nigeria and several countries across Africa.