The Lagos Division of the Court of Appeal has set aside the judgement of a Federal High Court, which ordered the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority to pay N246 million as compensation to Ese Falae over the death of her husband, Deji Falae. Deji Falae, was the son of former presidential candidate, Olu Falae, he was also at the time of his death a Commissioner in Ondo State. The deceased died on October 3, 2013, when an Associated Aviation aircraft conveying the remains of a former governor of Ondo State, Olusegun Agagu, from Lagos to Ondo for burial crashed at the Lagos airport. The aircraft reportedly crashed just outside the aerodrome at about 9:32 am, a minute after it took off. Consequently, the widow of the late commissioner and her three children acting as the plaintiffs had dragged the airline to court, asking it to hold that the airline’s negligence was responsible for Falae’s death. They urged the court to declare that Associated Aviation Nigeria Limited and the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) failed in their obligation of ensuring the safety of the passengers aboard Flight 361. Upon the close of the trial, and final written addresses of the parties, the trial judge, Justice Hadizat Shagari, had on March 28, 2018, ordered the Associated Aviation Nigeria Limited and the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority to pay the sum of N246 million as compensation for the death of Deji Falae, in the ill-fated aircraft. However ,dissatisfied with the judgement, the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority through its counsel, Emeka Okpoko (SAN) appealed the judgment and urged the court to determine whether the trial judge was right in law in her evaluation of evidence and ascribing probative value to the evidence placed in court. The appellant also prayed the court to determine whether, in the light of the provisions of the Civil Aviation Act, the trial judge was right in law to have granted all the reliefs sought against the Appellant. In its unanimous decision, delivered by Justice Onyekachi Otis (presiding), Justice Abubakar Umar, and Justice Adebukunola Banjoko, the Appellate Court allowed the appeal and held that the trial judge was in error to have held the Appellant liable to pay damages to the 1st to 4th respondents (Deji Falae’s family).