The recent spates  of mob action across Nigeria leading to gruesome killings of hapless victims are, to say the least, reprehensible, barbaric and unacceptable in any civilised society. These incidents have reinforced the need to start a serious conversation around the easy resort to jungle justice by Nigerians. Jungle justice is the form of instant punishment handed out by a mob to anyone accused of an offence, often leading to death. Those who engage in such acts turn themselves into accuser, judge and executioner all rolled into one. The lynching of the 22-year-old, 200-level student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, Miss Deborah Samuel, on May 12, 2022, has generated a lot of concern in the public space with many Nigerians condemning the act, just as a few have tried to justify the action of her killers. Miss Samuel incurred the wrath of her killers due to comments she made on a WhatsApp group chat belonging to her class which some of her Muslim classmates considered an insult to Prophet Muhammad. According to reports, the aggrieved classmates invited outsiders and she was beaten to a state of coma and burnt alive in front of security agents whose effort to save her were futile. Following the arrest of some suspects involved in her killing, the rampaging mob was later to attack churches, businesses and even the palace of the Sultan of Sokoto for condemning the killing of the student, forcing the state government to impose a curfew to curtail further violence in the city. On the same day as Miss Samuel’s killing, another Nigerian, one David Imoh, a sound engineer, was similarly lynched and his body set ablaze by a mob of commercial motorcycle operators in Lagos following an argument over N100 balance that escalated into a mob violence. Apart from David, his friends were also beaten to coma, forcing the state government to ban commercial motorcycle operations in parts of Lagos from the end of this month, with a view to extending it to all parts of the state. On Friday, May 20, it was the prompt action of the police that saved another Christian woman in Bauchi, Rhoda Jatau, from being lynched after some persons accused her of blaspheming Islam over comments she posted on staff WhatsApp platform. Jatau, 40, a health worker in Warji local government area of Bauchi State, was said to have made a post relating to the killing of Miss Samuel in Sokoto which some persons considered offensive. An irate mob searched for her and when they could not find her, they attacked Christians and houses and businesses owned by Christians in the area. Police said seven shops and six houses were destroyed, while over 10 persons were injured. Another lucky fellow is a suspected serial burglar in Effurun, Delta State, simply called Akpomoghena. On May 19, he was reportedly caught trying to steal from a house in the town, and following his confession, angry residents beat him and were about to set him ablaze when the police arrived from Ugborikoko Station in the area to rescue him. These four incidents may not have been the only incidents within this one-week period but they are the ones that made it to the media. However, what is of grave concern to this paper is the quick resort to mob justice which often always results in the death of the accused person whatever the offence was. It is a common practice for petty thieves and pickpockets to be yoked around the neck with tyres and set alight in markets. What is even more worrisome is that completely innocent persons are sometimes targeted and killed in this fashion – it only takes someone to shout allegations against the victim in public, and he is one breath away from death. In this wise, this newspaper recalls the case of the Aluu Four in 2012 – the four undergraduates of the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, who were lynched when a debtor they had an altercation with raised the theft alarm against them. All their remonstrations fell on deaf ears. As a newspaper, we wish to underline the fact that a person caught in connection with an offence remains innocent until proven guilty by the court of law according to the country’s legal statutes. Therefore, those who killed Miss Samuel in Sokoto and Engr Imoh in Lagos are guilty of murder, a grievous crime punishable by the death penalty under the country’s laws, while those who wanted to kill Mrs Jatau in Bauchi and Akpomoghena in Effurun should be arrested and prosecuted for attempted murder. It is imperative, in our view, to underline the fact that the nation’s constitution is supreme and superior to any other body of laws. That is why the justification of the mob killing of Miss Samuel by some highly placed religious leaders is  regrettable  as it serves as incitement to more jungle justice. Such persons need to reassess their position. They should be made to appreciate the saying that the death of any human being, especially in such gory circumstances, diminishes humanity as a whole. The quick resort to mob justice is a cankerworm in the nation’s public space which needs to be tackled with firmness. It has persisted so far because the arm of the is shortened by extraneous factors that have only succeeded in reinforcing the belief by those so inclined that impunity, for whatever reasons, pays. We urge the government to disabuse this mindset by applying the law strictly. That is the only way to restore sanity in the society already on the verge of lawlessness. 