Everyone can see that Nigerian politicians of various categories—aspirants and their associates as well as sponsors, supporters, thugs, observers, etc,—are out there on the field, all in a bid to secure advantages for themselves or their preferred power-seekers. The march, by the country, towards the 2023 General Elections has been most interesting, especially considering the varying styles of the contestants and their respective backers, which have cumulatively constituted the main features of the existing political scene. The forthcoming primary elections being organised by the political parties have already made the politicians and, by extension, all Nigerians restless. They are characteristically deploying their ‘all-in-all’ in the course of the struggle for the acquisition of slots for the main contest next year. Primary elections as the events that produce candidates for the main elections are a serious business to not only politicians but also all other citizens and to which therefore they all naturally look forward. It is at the stage of the primary elections that contestants within the same political party manifest the tendency and penchant for the manipulation of processes and which are dangerously carried to the higher stage. In other words, primary elections are the most fundamental determinants of not only the fate of power-seekers, but also the future of democracy. The leaders that eventually emerge at all levels are definitely products of the primaries, which indicates that the quality of democratic governance is necessarily determined by the nature of such activities conducted by political parties. The various happenings in, especially, the two major political parties—All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)–and which have a direct bearing on the activities in the other parties have already become matters of utmost concern to all Nigerians. The cost of nomination forms, calibre and number of the aspirants who have purchased the forms, the approach of each one or combination of them to the forthcoming primaries as well as the reactions of the various categories of the electorate to the attitudes of the parties and the aspirants are issues that have so far defined this particular phase of the electioneering process. Although more aspirants than had been imagined have obtained the forms of the two parties at all levels, the cost of the material is a confirmation of the fear that participation in the contest for nomination is an exclusive preserve of the money bags. The 100 million naira and the 40 million naira as costs of presidential nomination form of the APC and the PDP respectively, are, for example, unbelievably outrageous for those aspirants who may have the required competence for the real jobs but have no financial muscle to pay for the document. The more than two dozens of the aspirants who have paid for, particularly, the APC presidential nomination form are those highly privileged politicians who, mainly on account of either their personal wealth or access to public funds, have clear advantages over the others. They are the facilitators and beneficiaries of the monetisation process which is the biggest feature of Nigerian politics. It is the disturbing enormous influence of money over all the other factors that is the cause of obvious decline of quality of politics and governance. If opportunities or privileges such as participation in contest for nomination tickets are such purchasable, all other issues that are central to the security, stability and prosperity of the country will not be given their proper places in the scheme of things. Apart from a few of them, a lot of the other presidential spirants have chosen to advertise themselves on the basis of their sectional, ethnic or even religious backgrounds which has resulted in the neglect of issues of utmost public importance. Most of the arguments they make for themselves and which they continuously push onto the public domain are such that re-enforce certain negative sentiments. Direct primaries, indirect primaries and consensus are legitimate options open to political parties for the nomination of their candidates, but which are, however, being manipulated by the aspirants. The insistence, by the Southern presidential aspirants that they are most deserving of consideration for nomination and the threat by some of them that the level of peaceful co-existence in the country will be determined by the extent to which their demand is met are, just like the other acts of subversion of the electioneering, inimical to the country’s democracy. 2023 General Elections are a challenge; a kind of challenge that had, arguably, never been experienced by the country. Most of the citizens, having been victims of various forms of disappointment, are tirelessly voicing out their desire for positive changes of which they are expecting the next set of leaders to be practical champions. But it appears that the political parties and most of the aspirants who are jostling for nomination are yet to come to terms with the enormity of the challenge. Their body language is fully suggestive of an intention to adopt the ‘business as usual’ approach to the governance of the country beyond 2023, quite contrary to the legitimate expectation of the people. It is, therefore, to this ugly attitude that concerned Nigerians are furiously reacting by clearly expressing huge dissatisfaction over  the power-seekers’ strategies for the engagement of the various segments of the citizenry on the basic issues of unity, peace and development. It worries them that at a time when heightened insecurity has pervaded most parts of the country as a result of persistent agitations and indulgence in some other criminal activities by many violent and rebellious groups, a lot of the aspirants including those of the ruling party have not yet come up with sufficiently convincing prescriptions for the resolution of the prevailing crises. As the process for the nomination of candidates for the 2023 elections goes on, the basic requirement for the conduct of the kind of primaries that will produce competent and reliable contestants is an effective monitoring of all the relevant events by concerned professional groups and a full reflection on the current disturbing situation in the country by those who, through any kind of means, will work for the emergence of the nominees. The monitors of the process should undertake to consistently remind the nominators to show patriotism in the course of discharging their responsibilities. This means that the salvation of the country will come only when a lot more interest is put in all the activities leading to the primaries so that the electors or nominators of the candidates can be fully put under check, just to ensure that they do not put forward the worst amongst the aspirants as the candidates. A reasonable effort in this regard by people of conscience will definitely be a big game-changer.