This is why it has become important that we revisit the issue of zoning and power rotation now that party primaries are already here with us. The zoning debate was resurrected last year by Southern governors when they mobilised across party lines to work towards  actualising the agenda that the South produces the next president. And so far, they have stayed the course. Although, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has thrown its presidential ticket to all zones, thereby jettisoning the zoning arrangement which is enshrined in its constitutions, aspirants from South East, North Central and North East are going ahead with the open primary hoping that delegates will at the end of day use their votes to zone the ticket in fairness and equity. The All Progressives Congress (APC), on the other hand, has not been transparent about the issue of zoning. And it appears not bothered because unlike the PDP, it’s not part of its constitution. But a lot of Nigerians are hoping that the leaders of these two major parties will do the needful before it is too late. Despite the acceptability of zoning or its rejection by a particular section of the country, the overwhelming majority of Nigerians have agreed that zoning will give everyone a sense of belonging in the commonwealth of the country. With current tension in the country, zoning is perhaps the only way to manage the diversity, ethnic interests and agitations. The cliche that Nigeria belongs to all of us needs to be acted out in a positive way. The idea of rotation and zoning was mooted during the second republic by the National Party of Nigeria, which was then struggling to build a party with national appeal. It was later included in its Constitution vide Article 21 thereof that NPN will strive to achieve ‘national character’ in all its dealings. This may be the origin of the phrase ‘federal character’, which later surfaced in the 1999 Constitution. This would also explain section 223 (1) (b) and (2) (b) of the 1999 Constitution, which make it mandatory for all political parties to reflect the principle of federal character in their Constitution. Zoning and power rotation were also part of the debate at the National Constitutional Conference set up by the General Sani Abacha regime between 1994 and 1996 in Abuja. And it was approved by the Provisional Ruling Council (PRC). In 1999, the PDP adopted it and zoned the presidency to the South West. The All Peoples Party (APP) also toed this path and a Northern frontline politician, Alhaji Umaru Shinkafi, dropped his presidential ambition and became the running mate to Chief Olu Falae. The argument of the proponents of zoning is that no particular zone has the monopoly of competent and qualified persons for president, every zone in the country can produce persons with the capacity to govern or lead. But for fairness and equity, zones that are yet to produce Nigeria’s president since 1999, should be given the chance. This is where the North Central, North East, and especially South East feel that they have a case. Others have argued that Nigeria did not begin in 1999. In the 61 years of the country’s independence, under both the military and civilians, the North has controlled power at the centre, for more than 41 years! So there is a case to be made for equity and justice. But the North Central argues that from 1960 to date, except for the period of military intervention, they have not been given the chance to produce the President. In the opinion of this Newspaper, while we agree that every section of this country should be treated fairly in power sharing, it should be done without sacrificing competence and capacity. It is clear that regional and religious sentiments have done us more harm than good as a country. It is high time we promoted competence over sentiment. Yes, zoning is good and should be embraced in fairness to all zones of the country. But it does not mean that we should sacrifice competence and give to whoever simply because it is the turn of the zone he comes from. This newspaper is of the candid opinion that  competent persons abound everywhere and in all zones. We should therefore strive for merit, fairness and equity in our collective search for responsible leadership that can take this country out of the woods.    