Dangote Cement Plc, said it will empower stakeholders in the value chain of Palm Kernel Shell (PKS) supply as part of its strategies to shore up and sustain its availability as a waste that is co-processed in the cement kiln in order to recover energy. This, the cement manufacturer said, is part of its contribution to the global environmental preservation efforts and circular economy. To this end the company has instituted periodic value chain analysis and community engagements with the waste (PKS) collectors as well as the palm oil millers in communities across Nigeria to explore avenues to empowering them to bolster production which in effect will lead to sustainable generation of PKS to be co-processed in the cement kilns, leaving zero waste. A team from Dangote Cement led by the head, Alternative Fuel Project, Engr. Peter Anagbe and head, Sustainability, Dr. Igazeuma Okoroba was at one of the farm settlements in Ikire, in Irewole local government area of Osun State where PKS are sourced to ascertain the needs of the community and ways through which the company can empower them. Anagbe told the community that Dangote Cement was desirous of ensuring sustainable collection of waste materials in the form of PKS, as a means of improving the environment and an addition to the source of livelihood for them. He urged the people to always look at alternative value adding opportunities to wastes in whatever they are doing taking a cue from the PKS which hitherto was a waste which is openly incinerated, causing environmental pollution. One of the community leaders, Elder Hammed Adekunle, who conducted the team round the site of palm oil mills in the area explained that the main stay of the community economy is palm oil milling and that the use of PKS for co-processing, offered them opportunity to expand and diversify. He lamented that the process of palm oil production, which in turn generates PKS waste, is a very tedious one and would appreciate any support from Dangote Cement for them to acquire modern machines to process the palm oil and in turn, generate the PKS. The entire process of getting PKS from the harvesting of palm tree, he disclosed, involves as much as 30 people depending on the volume of the palm tree being harvested. Adekunle expressed gratitude at the gesture of the management of Dangote Cement noting that the cement company was the first to pay them a visit and show empathy saying, “this means Dangote cement values us as a critical stakeholder in the value chain of ensuring zero waste-to-landfill by evacuating the waste palm kernel shell (PKS).” Anagbe explained that the visit was necessitated by the shift in global attention to alternative fuel sourcing, which is expected to contribute to the realization of ‘zero emission’ and ‘zero waste’ concepts. He added that, alternative fuel can be produced from other agricultural wastes, municipal wastes, commercial and industrial wastes, thereby, contributing to minimize waste to landfills.