The newly inaugurated leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State, has announced the expulsion of the immediate-past chairman of the party, Dr Ben Nwoye, and five others. Their expulsion was announced  at the South-East zonal office of the party shortly after an expanded meeting of the State Executive Committee (SEC), and the Senatorial District Committee (SDC) attended by all the party chairman in the 17 local government areas of the State. The State Secretary of APC, Hon. Robert Ngwu, who made the announcement, alleged that Nwoye engaged in anti-party activities with the intention to disrupt the peaceful, lawful, and efficient organisation of the party. The resolution partly reads, “the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State has ratified the suspension of its former state chairman, Mr. Ben Nwoye, for engaging in anti-party activities which tend to disrupt the peaceful, lawful, and efficient organisation of the party. “The resolution was reached at an expanded meeting of the State Executive Committee (SEC), and the Senatorial District Committee (SDC), which was well attended by all, including the 17 Local Government Chairmen. “Subject to Article 21 (A), subsections (ii), (v), (vi), (vii), (ix), and (x) of its constitution, Group Captain Orji, Mr. Kingsley Uduji, Dr. Joseph Orji, Mr. Chidera Obed, Mr. Ododoeze Ocho, and Barr. Chukwudi Igwe are hereby expelled from the party for filing court action without exhausting the avenues for redress as provided in our Constitution. “This disciplinary action is in line with Article 13.7, subsection (vi), and takes immediate effect.” “This disciplinary action is in line with Article 13.7, subsection (vi), and takes immediate effect.” But Nwoye has dismissed the suspension, insisting that he will not hand over to the new state chairman, Agballa, on the ground that his membership of the party is a subject of litigation. He said he was surprised that Agballa, instead of joining the party formally, decided to to contest for the state chairmanship position. The former APC chairman in the state claimed that despite the fact that no Congress was held in the state, Agballa has continued to parade himself as chairman. On why he has not handed over to Agballa,  Nwoye maintained that his membership and chiarmanship of the Enugu APC were subjects of litigations. He stated that a former governor of the state and former Senate President have all testified that there was no congress that led to the emergence of Agballa and members of his executive committee “Ugochukwu Agballa’s membership of APC is subject to multiple ‘litigations. The Congress held at Event Center has only one Exco member. Only Ugochukwu Agballa was presented and he sat down and appointed other members of the Exco. “They were illegally constituted by Agballah assuming he is a member of our party, he should have known that there is a provision in our constitution that gave opportunity for fair hearing,” Nwoye stated.