But political observers in the state aver that the emergence of two factions within the party points to an intense power tussle. Aniagwu said both Okowa and Ibori understood each other contrary to what people are saying. “In the comment of Ibori recently, he commended Okowa very well for his good work and he will want Okowa to produce the best candidate that can win the election.” But how such a governorship candidate will emerge in the face of a disagreement between Okowa and lbori remains to be seen. Ibori is said to be supporting Olorogun David Edevbie, from Delta Central, who served in his cabinet as commissioner for Finance and Economic Planning and who he also recommended as a kitchen cabinet member in the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua’s administration. Interestingly, Okowa served alongside Edevbie in Ibori’s cabinet. He returned as finance commissioner during Okowa’s first tenure in 2014 before his appointment as chief of staff, a position he lost at a recent cabinet reshuffling. On the contrary, sources close to the governor disclosed that his choice is the speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, whom he has a cordial working relationship with.  The friction points…. Ibori has had his eyes on key positions in the government in his bid to reclaim his political influence in the state. Okowa on the other hand wants a clean break from the control of the Ibori dynasty, which David Edebvie represents. Okowa and Ibori’s disagreement started in 2017 with the removal of the former speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Monday Igbuya, despite Ibori’s opposition to the impeachment. Although Okowa denied having anything to do with it, many believe Igbuya’s removal could not happen without his consent. The disagreement also extended to who emerged as PDP chairman in the state. While Ibori supported Hon. Godwin Atose, ex-chairman of Sapele LGA, for the position, Okowa overruled Ibori by installing Kingsley Esiso. Ibori was absent from Esiso’s inauguration on two occasions. Also, the formation of DC 23, a pressure group under the leadership of Ighoyota Amori, an associate of Ibori, and the revitalisation of Delta Political Vanguard (DPV) led by Michael Diden, a loyalist of Okowa who is also chairman of Delta State Oil Producing Areas Commission (DESOPADEC), is another sign of a power tussle. While DC 23 is championing the emergence of an Urhobo PDP flag bearer during the next governorship election in the state, DPV says it’s committed to Okowa, and will support whoever is his choice as the party’s governorship candidate in 2023. There is also the allegation that Okowa might renege on agreements reached in the course of a peace meeting brokered by Ibori between Okowa and ex-governor Emmanuel Uduaghan over the Delta South Senatorial seat. It is said that while lbori prefers Uduaghan for the senatorial seat, Okowa is rooting for Diden. They are both itsekiri from Delta South. Nevertheless, the alleged removal of Ibori’s allies, especially Edebvie as Okowa’s chief of staff, and Chiedu Ebie, secretary to the state government, under the guise of cabinet reshuffling, gave an impression that the former governor’s men are being weeded out of the administration. The bone of contention now is the alleged rejection of Ibori’s preferred candidate, Edebvie, as the 2023 PDP governorship flag bearer. Sources from Okowa’s camp, say Edebvie allegedly got into the bad books of the governor after he contested the governorship primary against the zoning arrangement in 2015, a move which also scuttled the chance of Delta North. Interestingly, the Urhobo apex social-cultural organization, Urhobo Progress Union (UPU) has thrown its weight behind Edevbie. But Edevbie’s endorsement by the Urhobo apex body was widely rejected by forces believed to be loyal to the governor’s political camp fueling speculations that Okowa was not willing to shift ground for Ibori to produce his successor in 2023. The friction took a new twist when the PDP state chairman, Kingsley Esiso, at a recent rally in Agbor, Ika South Council, said only Okowa will decide who the next governor will be. To underscore how intense the situation has become, a meeting of some PDP powers brokers in the state, including Okowa, his predecessor, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, the former state chairman of the party, Chief Edwin Uzor, member representing Aniocha/Oshimili and minority leader of the House of Representatives, Chief Ndudi Elumelu, ended in a deadlock. Also Okowa’s questioning of the zoning in the state had earlier caused some concerns among stakeholders, like former minister of Information and Culture and elder statesman, Prof. Sam Oyovbaire and Senator Peter Nwaoboshi. They replied that PDP has a zoning arrangement in the state, and that the power rotation is anchored on the three senatorial districts and not based on ethnicity. Okowa from Delta North Senatorial District in 2015 took over as governor from Uduaghan, who is from Delta South. Before them, was Ibori from Delta Central. The rotation of the governorship seat among the various senatorial districts gave rise to a zoning pattern in the PDP of the state in what seems to be a gentleman’s agreement. This gives the impression that the next state governor should come from Delta Central, owing to the arrangement and where the rotation started in 1999 with Ibori.  Interventions The PDP national leadership led by the national chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, met with lbori and Okowa in an effort to calm nerves. The visit, according to reliable sources, was to find a common ground on the party’s governorship candidate. Ayu, at the meeting, cautioned against disagreements that could jeopardise the party’s fortunes in the 2023 elections. “Let me counsel that it is normal to have family disagreements within a political party, but whatever the disagreements we may have, let us ensure that it remains a family disagreement. Since we returned to democratic governance in 1999, Delta has remained a PDP state and I congratulate all our party members in Delta for the unity that has ensured that we remain a PDP state. “It is said that divided we fall and united we stand. The PDP family in Delta must remain united and I have no doubt in mind that come next year, the governor of this state and all members of the state and National Assembly will all come from the PDP. “We don’t lose elections in Delta and we are not going to, particularly with the performance of Governor Okowa. Delta is moving forward and Delta will continue to move forward and Delta will always take its pride in the place in Nigeria as one of the shining states of the PDP family,” Ayu added.  A party exco member who spoke on the condition of anonymity said some worried party leaders in the state were behind the invitation of the national leadership to the state. However, the chief political strategist to Okowa, Dr. Festus Okubor, has dispelled claims of a friction between both leaders. He said “There is nothing like leadership acrimony” ahead of Delta 2023, emphasizing that contrary to naysayers, PDP would scale through the governorship polls victorious, stronger and more united under the watch of Okowa, a man he described as “a sure footed team player who consults and listens.” Also, Tony Eluemunor, an Abuja-based journalist, said the relationship between Okowa and Ibori is cordial adding that it goes back to the early 1990s. He said, “Okowa showed his loyalty to Ibori in the most defiant way possible; he employed Ibori’s daughter as an aide, not in his constituency office in Delta north senatorial district but in the senate. Today, that daughter of Ibori is a member of the House of Assembly, Asaba; she contested and won the electoral battle. Till today, she calls Okowa her “political father.” Corroborating, Movement for Stronger Delta, MSD, a political pressure group, said there was no fight between Ibori and Governor Okowa over who would govern the state in 2023. According to a party source, any attempt by PDP to field an unpopular candidate in 2023 would spell doom for the party, especially with a resurgent APC led by deputy senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege.