National Association of Community Health Practitioners of Nigeria (NACHPN), has called for improved funding for Immunisation to reverse the country’s current under-five mortality rate. The national president of NACHPN, Comrade Kabir Yahaya Ahmed, made the call at a press briefing in commemoration of the African Vaccination Week, themed; “Long life for all” in Abuja. He decried the high rate of infant and child mortality in the country, saying despite global decline, under five mortality remains high in Nigeria. Represented by the assistant general secretary of NACHPN, Sarki Zakaria, the president noted that one quarter of these deaths are preventable by vaccinations. “Nigeria pledged ownership of the immunization programme with outlined programmatic strategies, innovations and sustainable financing solutions, to address inequalities in access to vaccines to ensure every eligible child in Nigeria is reached with vaccination. But still, as of today, under-five mortality remains high in Nigeria despite global decline. One quarter of these deaths are preventable by vaccinations,” said Ahmed. He, therefore, urged the government to support vaccinations in the country by adequately funding immunisation and the immediate inclusion of Community Health Practitioners in the midwives service scheme (MSS) by the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). This, Ahmed said Will boost human resources for health to ensure everyone in the hard-to-reach communities are vaccinated. He said, “As we commemorate the African Vaccination Week in Nigeria, we call on the Government of Nigeria to consider the resulting health advances from her investment in health such as the milestones achieved during the COVID-19 pandemic and polio eradication to see the possibilities of what the we can accomplish if Nigeria adequately finances and works together to build a health and surveillance systems that is inclusive for Nigerians.” African Vaccination Week is commemorated in the last week of April every year to highlight the importance of vaccines for all.