Osun State governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has declared support for the aspiration of his counterpart in Ekiti and presidential aspirant, Kayode Fayemi, saying it is a pay back time for the chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF). According to Oyetola, Fayemi’s capacity and competence as one of the best sons of Oodua is obvious to all.   A statement released Thursday in Abuja by the spokesman of the Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation, Femi Ige, noted that Governor Oyetola spoke when Feyemi visited Osun and Oyo States to lobby party leaders and delegates for their support.  Describing Governor Fayemi as “a great bridge builder, team leader, consensus manager and one of the best sons of Oodua,” Oyetola said the NGF chairman has led the forum to the satisfaction of all.   He stated: “He (Fayemi) takes everyone’s problem as his own, this is why in four years we have always spoken with one voice. We pray for you because we believe in your leadership capacity and when the time comes, we pray we’ll be able to pay back the love and kindness you have shown us.”  While speaking, Fayemi appealed to the delegates and party faithfuls not to create enemies for aspirants where none exist.  “This struggle is about service and not about self. The biggest thing is for APC to win and South-west to clinch the ticket,” he noted.  Addressing delegates and party leaders in Ibadan, Oyo state capital, Fayemi promised to take the Ibadan Mega City Project seriously and aid the efforts of the state government in turning the vast fertile landscape into an agricultural gold mine that would make the state the nation’s food basket. He asked the state delegates to queue behind him based on his rich educational pedigree, integrity, capacity and competence, even as he reminded the delegates that he’s the only aspirant on the APC platform who is an indegene of the state.   He noted: “You may shocked by my claim of indigeneship, but that is the truth. My father lived the greater percentage of his life here in Ibadan. I was born at Adeoyo General Hospital here in Ibadan , I grew up around Iso-part, I did my primary school at ICC Primary School at E9, I have a family compound here and I have my own house here in town too.   “My parents may have been of Ekiti extraction, but I’ve every right to contest in Ibadan haven been born here and lived majority of my adult life in Ibadan, I can confidently say, I’m a son of the soil and the only Ibadan son in the presidential race.   “With my knowledge of Ibadan and Oyo State in general, I’ve a duty to contribute significantly to its development if elected. I’ll bring my God endowed knowledge and capacity to bear in the onerous task of making Nigeria one of the safest places to live in Africa.”