Benue State governor Samuel Ortom has told Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore to get ready as he is prepared to meet them in court for any legal battle. The governor said he would not compromise the security and welfare of the people of the state for any reason. Ortom, who reacted to the secretary-general of the group, Saleh Hassan, who threatened to take legal action against him for illegal seizure of cows belonging to their members on account of violation of the ban on open grazing of cattle, insisted that the law banning open grazing in the state is irrevocable. The secretary-general of the group at a press conference in Abuja on Monday, May 9th, 2022 threatened that they will take legal action against the Benue State government over illegal seizures of cows belonging to their members on account of violation of the ban on open grazing of cattle in the state. Governor Ortom in a reaction through the chief press secretary Nathaniel Ikyur dismissed the claims by the group that the cattle seized in the state by the Livestock Guards for violating the anti-open grazing laws were done illegally. “There is a law in place. And it is very clear that anyone who allows his or her cattle to roam freely in the state violates the law. When such herds are seized by the Livestock Guards, a time frame is given for owners to come forward and claim. When the time given by law elapses, we are left with no option but to auction. And that is what has taken place.” He stated that as a state, they are law-abiding and  cannot allow lawlessness. He explained that the law came into force in 2017 and was reviewed this year after it underwent every legislative process. “So, anybody or group who violates it will bear the consequences.” He stated, “We are prepared to meet them in court. The law is made to be obeyed so that we can have an orderly society. This law protects the interest of everyone irrespective of tribe or religion. It protects herders against rustling and also protects farmers who suffer the loss of their crops.”