The loans come at a cost and would have to be repaid gradually. Although Nigeria has an abundance of natural and human resources in the country, it still needs to put its act together and harness all revenue streams into the tax net for government to deliver on its promises to the citizenry. One area the present government is getting it right is in the payment of corporate tax by private sector led companies, which is being used to develop infrastructures and fund budgets.  Corporate organisations make money from the society where they operate and are meant to pay taxes in return to the government. Big players like Dangote, MTN, Airtel, Julius Berger, international oil companies (IOCs), deposit money banks (DMBs) have been in the forefront of paying corporate taxes. The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) should also go after those corporates especially shortchanging the government in this regard. A key private sector player who has demonstrated uncanny zeal in tax payments which other corporates should emulate is MTN Nigeria. This telecommunications network operator has paid over N3.5 trillion in taxes and levies to government from inception even as it has made over N3.4 trillion in capital investments in the country. MTN’s N3.5 trillion tax contribution dwarfs its tax dividend payments to shareholders by N1 trillion over the same period. On March 29, 2022 in Abuja, the FIRS rated MTN as the most tax compliant organisation in Nigeria and honoured it with two awards for the 2021 tax year. In 2021, MTN’s total tax contribution to all government agencies including the FIRS amounted to N757.6 billion while FIRS collected a total of N6.4 trillion tax revenue in the year from all tax payers. Specifically, MTN paid a total of N618.7bn in direct and indirect taxes to the FIRS in the 2021 tax year, representing approximately 13.5 per cent of the total FIRS collection for the year. MTN last year paid a total sum of N71.9 billion to renew its Unified Access Service (UAS) license and spectrum licence for wireless for another 10-year period starting 1 September 2021. Speaking on significance of tax payments, minister of finance, budget and national planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed said, “The right attitude towards taxation will enable every Nigerian to become a co-guardian of the tax system and the commonwealth. This will create a participatory system of taxation whereby the taxpayers and other stakeholders understand and accept that they have an equal stake in the tax system.” The FIRS had in 2021 following a directive by President Muhammadu Buhari, directed government agencies to enable the Service connect to their ICT systems, thus softening the ground for the FIRS to roll out its system for seamless acquisition of data. According to FIRS chairman, Muhammad Nami, “We are confident that by the time all the agencies achieve 100 percent compliance with the President’s directive, Nigeria shall be the envy of other countries for tax compliance and domestic tax revenue mobilisation.” At the launch of its Media Innovation Programme at the Lagos Business School (LBS), last week, the CEO of MTN Nigeria, Karl Toriola, said MTN recently took up the opportunity to participate in the Road Infrastructure Tax Credit Programme (RITC) to reconstruct the Enugu – Onitsha expressway in South-Eastern Nigeria as part of its contribution to national development.