The Accident Investigation Bureau, Nigeria (AIB-N), yesterday, released three reports of serious incidents and accidents that rocked the nation’s aviation sector. The reports which was released by the commissioner/chief executive officer, AIB-N, Engr. Akin Olateru,  involved Max Air’s B747 with registration 5N-DBK which occurred on September 6th, 2019; Azman Air’s B737-500 with registration, 5N-AIS and Nigerian Police Airwing, Cessna Citation 560 XLS aircraft. AIB-N also issued Immediate Safety Recommendation (ISR), to the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), to ensure Azman Air Services Limited immediately review the training of the incident flight crew of 5N-AIS Flight AZM 2316 from Lagos to Port Harcourt. The investigators said this was in order for the crew to be able to understand and recognise engine failure/malfunctions and its effect(s) at every phase of flight before they are allowed to resume flight duties. The reports which was released in Abuja also included 20 safety recommendations which were addressed to the regulatory body, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the affected airlines, the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), an aircraft manufacturer, as well as, the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). The commissioner said, “the newly released reports make a total of 75 aircraft accident reports released by the Bureau since its establishment in 2007 and a total of 56 reports released by the current administration from 2017 to date. “On the Azman Air flight which got seven safety recommendations, and one immediate recommendation directed to the NCAA, the AIB revealed that the casual factor as a result of the failure of number 4 and 5 bearings of engine number 2 leading to loss of power during the approach of the aircraft. “Contributory factors according to the AIB included failure to recognise the abnormal engine conditions (surge) during the cruise phase and hence, not making the appropriate decisions. This might have been connected to the insufficient technical knowledge and loss of situational awareness. “Others are non-implementation of the Flight Data Monitoring programme in accordance with 2.2.5.1 of the Azman Air Safety Management System Manual, non-rectification of the number two engine vibration anomalies recorded over a period of 8 months, and inadequate regulatory oversight of the Azman Air Safety Management System.” According to the AIB-N helmsman, no action has been taken on the Immediate Safety Recommendations issued by the bureau. “On the Max Air Incident, seven safety recommendations were proffered as the AIB explained that the aircraft with registration marks 5N-DBK, Flight NGL2092 departed King Abdul Aziz International Airport, Jeddah; Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, (OEJN) with returning Hajj pilgrims bound for Minna Airport, Nigeria, (DNMN). “The aircraft touched down on the right of the centre line of RWY 05 with the left main wheels first and the number one engine nacelle impacted the runway and was dragged along the runway centre line. “AIB identified excessive rudder and aileron inputs at the short finals phase of the approach as causal factors while deciding to continue the ILS approach runway 05 with erratic localizer signals and an un-stabilized approach with a no go-around decision as contributory factors. “On the Cessna Citation 560, XLS+ aircraft with registration marks 5N-HAR operated by the Nigeria Police (NP) five (5) safety recommendations were prescribed. “The causal factor for the crash which had six passengers on board was an uncoordinated flight as a result of inadequate Crew Resource Management (CRM) that led to the partial release of the parking brake, which resulted in rejected take-off while the contributory factors were the inability of the aircraft to get airborne after attaining the rotation speed (Vr) during take-off roll even with aft elevator pressure. “The other was non-adherence to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as contained in the Cessna Citation 560 XLS+ Airplane Flight Manual.”