His house is a regular rendezvous for people, at lunch and dinner time, people sit around his long dining table placed with huge pots of food of different dishes, the mission is to feast, this he does almost as a daily occurrence. Senator Muhammed Sani Musa does not eat alone, if he does, he will never be satisfied. This I know about him about 15 years ago when our paths first crossed. While he feasts in his house those not privileged to be on his table are fed daily by his wife. Through her pet project, Hajia Saadatu Sani of the Future Pathway Foundation feeds every day about a hundred people on the street. She is an immutable replica of her husband, two people defined by altruism and love for humanity. Mohammed Sani Musa is one soul consumed by compassion, his joy in life is to see others happy, the reason upon being elected as senator representing Niger East senatorial district, the first thing he did was to forfeit his salary and allowances to his constituency. Since 2019, the man has not used a dime of his salary and allowances as a lawmaker for his personal use- in fact, he never sees the money as standing order to the bank sees the money going directly to those in charge of his constituency office in Minna. Indisputable fact has it that no politician has touched the lives of his people like Muhammed Sani Musa. He is reputed to be the only leader who ensures tangible governance largesse gets to his people. Those without jobs are now gainfully employed, those with skills are empowered, the indigent ones are placed on scholarships, hospitals built and equipped for the people, same way he distributes trailer loads of food items to his people during festive ceremonies. Indeed Sani Musa fondly called 313 came to live for his people. When he ventured into the All Progressives Congress chairmanship race, his people cried and feared he would be far from them. To them, he should always be around them in service and impact. Indeed, those who live forever recreate themselves in others, senator Sani Musa is that worthy ambassador that any human would desire and the people of Niger east are lucky to have a man who prefers to live for his people than himself. His greatest fulfilment is the happiness of his people and when asked what propels him to be this sacrificial, he would say, ‚Hajia my mother lived her life serving people, it is my duty to continue with her legacy. Defined as boundless and limitless, our paths crossed 15th years ago when I went to interview him as a student editor of the Sardauna Magazine in his Minna home. When I was done, he said and I quote, „I‘m so impressed with your boldness even as a student‘. Since then, I didn‘t allow time to pass without keeping in touch. Many years later, I won his confidence as he adopted and welcomed me into his household. I became one of Sani Boys as people call those under his tutelage. He helped to set me up in one of my businesses with a whopping sum of five Million naira, that was in 2017! He wasn‘t even a senator then. In 2018, when I showed him a copy of the book, #TheBuhariInUs, he read through in minutes with concealed countenance. He asked that I go home and return later to finish talks on the book. By the time I had arrived at his house, he was already in the car. He asked I joined him in the car. I didn‘t realise where we were headed to until I saw myself in the open embrace of the Villa. Our host was the First Lady. I was too dazed that it took time before I regained my composure. Sitting before us was Hajia Aisha Buhari. Beaming with motherly smiles, she said, ‚Mallam Abdullahi, where is the book you wrote about General Buhari?‘, in trepidation, I handed her the book and a copy of my magazine where she flipped through and saw my tribute on Hajia Salamatu Baiwa Umar-Eluma. With heartened excitement, she added, ‚So you know Salamatu?‘, and I said, Hajia Salamatu is one of the earthly angels from Kogi. That was Sani Musa for you, he has no reservation for prejudice. He is a man with an open mind and a large heart. Highly detribalized. He is a man with a date for national reckoning. Distinguished Senator, as you celebrate your birthday today I want to say thank you for believing in me, standing by me and for the many supports. May your heart desires be granted. My book got the nod of the first family solely because of you. You highly appreciated my distinguished senator. Happy Birthday 57, Dan Durbin Minna. Appreciatively musing