A former secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Chief Olu Falae, has said the cabal in the Presidency wants former President Goodluck Jonathan back in the office in 2023 for their selfish interests. Falae, who is a chieftain of the pan Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, said the motive behind the cabal’s moves was to ensure that power returned to the northern region after four years since the former president could not again spend more than four years in power. Speaking in Akure, the Ondo State capital, Falae said Jonathan who was rejected by the same people in 2015, has now turned into a beautiful bride. According to him, “the man you threw away from the government was said to be a problem man, an incompetent man, he was an idiot, an imbecile. There was no name they didn’t call him. Now you are going back to ask him to come back to rule. “And there is only one reason for that. The only reason they are asking Goodluck Jonathan to come back is that he has spent one term as president. They want power back to the North quickly. So, they want to use Goodluck Jonathan to achieve that objective against his people. “They don’t care what he does if he goes back and he is a bigger ‘thief’ this time, if he is more ‘incompetent’ this time, it does not bother them as long as they get to power quickly back. Are we on the same plane? Do we have the same objective? “They will sacrifice anything in Nigeria as long as they get what they want. So, this is where we are, and that’s why we need a political party not what I call an opportunistic gang up for power. That’s what PDP is; that’s what APC is – opportunistic gang up for power, not parties. “Look at the run off to the party primaries. It’s like war at all levels. That is because the objective of the aspirants is personal and financial. It’s not how to get Nigeria out of the crisis, unemployment into prosperity. That’s not why they are fighting. “They are fighting because they want to be the ones to grab the national treasury. That’s what it’s all about. So, without restructuring, we are wasting our time because the English man was not a fool when he gave us a truly federal constitution. ” It is within the ambit of a truly federal constitution that 448 different ethnic nationalities can co-exist with reasonable amity and peace. But this quasi-unitary constitution which is what some people want to hang on to because it suits them is a faulty arrangement. “Some people are happy about it; some are not happy about it. There can never be peace. Those who feel it’s not fair will forever fight it. Those who feel they’ve won a lottery would grab it,” he said.