Forte Upstream Services Limited has received the ISO 9001:2015 certification for its quality management system. The certificate was presented by the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to the company at an event held in Lagos recently. The award was issued as a result of the conformity of the company’s Quality Management System to the requirements of the standard ISO 9001:2015. According to the SON, the systems of Forte Upstream was subjected to rigorous certification assessment by auditors, after which the system was adjudged to have conformed to the requirements of the International Standards. “The certification is in accordance with the companies drive to improve its processes, procedures, and quality delivery of its services and product,” he stressed. The managing director of Forte Upstream, Mr. Doyin Ogun said, the certification is a confirmation of its company’s effective quality management system, which has been tested by the Standard Organisation of Nigeria. He explained that, “the audit process looked at the people, policies that we have, and look at the system that we use to drive them, and put them to test. This essentially factors in what and how in terms of our policy implementation in order to reach quality levels for our stakeholders, current customers, internal stakeholders, and ultimately our potential customers.” “What we believe is that, when clients see the ISO certification, it means our system have gone through the right kind of tests.” impetus to work with people that we would ordinarily have not been able to work with. It also gives us a better selection chance, when we go out there to look for partners,” Ogun said. He also added that the certification is now a standard for the company as it is imperative keep to the level by ensuring adequate feedback system with its clients and other stakeholders. Forte Upstream Services Limited is a wholly-owned Nigerian oilfield services company, providing solutions over the years to the Nigerian energy sector.