The news of the killing of a student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, Deborah Samuel by a mob over alleged blasphemy is still trending. Initial video clips of the late student being stoned and beaten with sticks were shared on social media. Expectedly the killing has continued to generate outrage and condemnation across the country. Already, condemnation of the blood-chilling act has been widespread cutting across the religious divide. The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III, while condemning the act, also urged security operatives to ensure that the perpetrators are apprehended. In a statement by Sa’idu Maccido, secretary of the Sultanate council, the royal father also urged the public to “remain calm and ensure peaceful co-existence among all people of the state and nation”. Similarly, President Muhammadu Buhari strongly condemned the resort to self-help by the mob in Sokoto, resulting in violence, destruction, and killing of Deborah. Buhari said the news of the killing of the young lady by fellow students was a matter of concern and demanded an impartial, extensive probe into all that happened before and during the incident. He noted that Muslims all over the world demand respect for the Holy Prophets, including Isah (Alaihissalaam, Jesus Christ) and Muhammad (SAW) but where transgressions occur, as alleged to be the case in this instance, the law does not allow anyone to take matters into their hands. The police command in Sokoto is reported to have arrested two suspects in connection with the killing. However, last weekend, some youths in Sokoto took to the streets to protest the arrest of the suspects. Responding to the tensed situation, and to avoid further breakdown of law and order, the State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, declared a curfew in parts of the state. Also, to avoid spillover, the Kaduna State Security Council declared a ban on religious protests in the state a measure meant to ensure the security of lives and property. In a statement, the state commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said the ban took immediate effect. He said the decision was to check the move by “some unpatriotic elements to organise series of for-and-against protests related to security in Sokoto State, following the lynching of a student for alleged blasphemy. This newspaper commends the swift response by the Sokoto and Kaduna State Governments to stop unpatriotic elements blowing the matter out of control. The measures by the governments are understandable. If not carefully handled, it may spiral into a serious religious crisis in the country. At a time when the country is beset by security challenges in all the regions, adding a religious crisis to the mix will be ruinous. It is also gratifying to note that the Sultan who is the Head of the Muslim Ummah in the country and some top Muslim clerics have condemned the resort to self-help by the mob. Re-echoing the position of the Sultanate, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) said in a statement signed by Ishaq Akintola, that the Quran and Prophet Mohammed condemned the violence, and added that the “aggrieved students” should have reported to the police and Hisbah. In the meantime, we appeal for restraint and urge all parties, Muslims and Christians to guard against   inciting and derogatory statements that could worsen an already tense situation. We also frown at the antics of some mischief makers who are sharing old videos and fake news claiming to be happenings in Sokoto State. The Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Hassan-Kukah had to debunk reports that his house was attacked and burnt. Overall, we condemn in its entirety mob actions and jungle justice. We insist that no Nigerian has the right to resort to self-help. Nothing justifies the killing of a fellow human being under any guise.  No matter how compromised anyone may think the judicial system is, we still have to resort to it to settle whatever differences there are. It is from this perspective that this Newspaper appeal to members of the public to remain calm and law-abiding. We also call on religious and political leaders to watch their utterances during this particular period. These are sensitive times. They should avoid statements that will add fuel to the crisis. Religious leaders should preach to their adherents the need for religious tolerance, temperance and peace. This is the time for cool heads.    