There is no debate about it. Corruption is on the rampage in the country. From all indications, corruption is growing teeth and is  indeed getting worse! The daily news that fills the papers and the airwaves about corruption activities is gloomy. People are stealing 80billion as if they are talking about 80 naira. If it is not 80 billion, it is 300billion, this is in a land where about 90 per cent of the populace are living on borderline poverty. No one expected things to get this bad. Nigerians voted for change and was expecting drastic reduction in corruption. So also did the international community. In an article published in The Washington Post titled, “Nigeria’s kleptocracy has been stealing public funds forever. Here’s how to stop it,” by Matthew Page, an international affairs fellow with the Council on Foreign Relations, coauthor of “Nigeria: What Everyone Needs to Know,” and was previously with the Department of State’s Bureau of Intelligence and Research, and was one of the U.S. intelligence community’s top experts on Nigeria, he noted that in Nigeria, billions of dollars each year flow illegally from public coffers into private hands. He wrote that Nigeria’s kleptocracy undermines the government’s ability to combat Boko Haram, a deadly terrorist movement that has displaced two million people in the country’s war-ravaged northeast. He revealed that in Council on Foreign Relations corruption brief, “Improving U.S. Anticorruption Policy in Nigeria,” he had argued that the United States could help deter corruption in Africa’s largest economy and most populous country. “Following Muhammadu Buhari’s 2015 presidential election victory, senior U.S. policymakers saw an opportunity to support his aggressive anti-corruption efforts. Thus far, U.S. efforts have consisted mostly of modest assistance programs for police investigators and civil-society watchdogs. Here’s the problem, from a policy perspective: Corruption is treated as a secondary, stand-alone issue.” Almost seven years after, the difference between the previous administration’s corruption and the present level of corruption in the country is like that between six and half a dozen. And some people would think that I am charitable given the corruption perception index of Nigeria as ranked by the Transparency International (TI) in the last few years, where Nigeria is ranked among the most corrupt countries in Africa and the world. And the way the EFCC is handling corruption matters is not helping the war against corruption. And could even be part of the problem. Last week the EFCC detained Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, over alleged N80billion fraud. Idris, according to a statement by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s spokesman Wilson Uwujaren, had raked off the funds through bogus consultancies and other illegal activities using proxies, family members and close associates. The statement alleged that the said funds were laundered through real estate investments in Kano and Abuja. The statement also explained that Idris was arrested after failing to honour invitations by the EFCC to respond to issues related to the alleged fraudulent activity. The statement claimed that the “The Commission’s verified intelligence showed that the AGF raked off the funds through bogus consultancies and other illegal activities using proxies, family members and close associates. The funds were laundered through real estate investments in Kano and Abuja.” A few days later the media space was also awash with the story of the detention of the former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Nsima Ekere, for alleged diversion of funds to the tune of N47 billion through registered contractors of the agency. The Commission’s spokesperson, Wilson Uwajaren, confirmed the development. The former NDDC boss was the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate for Akwa Ibom State in the 2019 elections. He also lost the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial primary election to Governor Emmanuel Udom in 2015. Nsima, 56, was the agency’s Managing Director between 2017 and 2018. In the aforementioned examples and many others, the alleged culprits were not apprehended by the EFCC through the agency’s independent investigations, but relied mostly on petitions by the members of the public. That is not a sign of proactivity. Why is the EFCC chasing the ambulance or like they say in local parlance, embarking on fire  brigade approach? The establishment of EFCC in 2002 by an Act of the National Assembly which was later amended in 2004 was borne out of the determination of the federal government to root out corruption and sanitize the Nigerian economic environment by enforcing all economic and financial crimes laws. The Act mandates the EFCC to combat financial and economic crimes and the Commission is empowered to prevent, investigate, prosecute and penalize economic and financial crimes. Also, the EFCC is charged with investigating cases of abuse of office, diversion of public funds through fraudulent award of contracts, tax fraud, illegal bunkering, terrorism financing, capital market fraud, cybercrime, banking fraud, etc. The EFCC has a mission to curb the menace of corruption that constitutes the clog in the wheel of progress; protect national and foreign investments in the country; imbue the spirit of hard work in the citizenry and discourage the crave for ill-gotten wealth; identify such ill-gotten wealth and confiscate them; build an upright work force in both public and  private sector of the economy; and contribute to the global war against financial crimes and terrorism financing, among others. You can see that one of the responsibilities of the EFCC is to prevent the act of corruption and identify ill-gotten wealth and confiscate it legally. How far has the EFCC and other anti-corruption agencies gone in the prevention of corruption besides relying on petitions? The EFCC is presumed to have the necessary technology to help it do its work, but it appears this technology is mostly unleashed on ‘Yahoo Boys’ while their mentors in government offices who are worse than the ‘Yahoo Boys’ are left with slap on the wrists until there is a big  petition followed by media blaze. Many Nigerians had watched recently and with excitement how EFCC operatives was said to have adopted a more technical way of tracking suspected internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo Boys’. Even the Yahoo Boys were amazed and obviously devastated given the manner the EFCC was tracking them with ease obviously using technology. Why can’t the EFCC apply similar technology in tracking the N80billion allegedly stolen by the Accountant General of the Federation? Even as I was writing this piece, I saw a news that Rivers State Accountant General has been declared wanted over the heist of close to 400billion naira and about 300m USD. Imagine. Certainly, no man can keep that much cash at home. They were presumably lodged in banks, yet he was not found out until there was a petition against him. The EFCC and other anti-corruption agencies should be more proactive. They should stop chasing the ambulance. It is better to prevent corruption than to chase a man after he has carted off billions! That is what technology is for! The anticorruption agencies should rely on their own intelligence field officers who investigate all publicly exposed persons discreetly, instead of waiting for petitions. Even in this election season, there are videos on the internet where politicians are seen sharing millions upon millions to party delegates. Such funds are arguably the proceeds of corruption and should be looked into. It  doesn’t take much thinking to know that whoever doles out such funds will rob the treasury when he gets into office. May Nigeria Rebound!