This, it said, would be done by sustaining a robust campaign to encourage philanthropy and corporate social responsibility for diversity and inclusion. Speaking during the premiere of the 6th edition of the company’s Touching Lives’ edition in Lagos, the wife of the governor of Ogun state, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, who was also present at the event, lauded Airtel’s efforts in providing relief for the vulnerable and sustaining a robust campaign to encourage other organizations to embrace philanthropy. “I would encourage Airtel to keep doing what they do as well as expand the Airtel Touching Lives programme for an increased impact. I would like to implore Airtel and other entities to keep sharing these inspiring stories for the world to emulate. I am proud to be associated with Airtel Touching Lives, and I look forward to partnering with Airtel, he said. Also speaking at the event, former chairman, First Bank Nigeria Plc, Ibukun Awosika thanked Airtel for going the extra mile to take a bit of the burden away from some hardworking Nigerians through its CSR Initiative. A beneficiary of Airtel Touching Lives Season 5, who survived a ghastly accident that damaged his urinary tract until Airtel intervened by supporting him with N8 million for corrective surgery in the United Kingdom, commended Airtel for giving him a second chance at life. He said: “I have always heard about stories like this on Television and Radio, but I never knew such an opportunity would come to my doorstep for free. tel gave me a second chance without wanting anything in return.” Managing director/CEO, Airtel Nigeria, Surendran Chemmenkotil, while speaking on the track record of the initiative said, Airtel Touching Lives has not only recorded milestones but has offered real help to individuals, communities, groups, and institutions since the launch of the initiative. “In Season 6, Airtel Nigeria has helped to rebuild a dream, a life, a hospital. We helped children rebuild their confidence, get an education, and we tested millions for COVID. We turned tears of sadness into tears of Joy.” He further encouraged other corporate entities as well as well-spirited individuals to join hands in improving the society, as collaboration to solve societal problems can make a huge difference, and if the privileged people continue to support the needy, society will excel and triumph at a quicker