United Nations (UN) resident and humanitarian coordinator in Nigeria, Mattias Schmale has lauded the strategies put in place for the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in Nigeria by the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (OSSAP-SDGs). Schmale gave the commendation in Lagos State, at the three-day OSSAP-SDGs 2022 Management Retreat, with the theme “Reflecting and Strategizing for Effective Coordination of the SDGs Implementation in Nigeria.” The UN official praised the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (OSSAP-SDGs) for the clear pathways charted for the effective implementation of the SDGs. He also praised OSSAP-SDGs for galvanising local and international partners and stakeholders across the country to continuously contribute their quota in the quest to attain the SDGs. Schmale also lauded Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire and her team for organising the retreat, which he noted would further strengthen the general efforts towards the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. He however noted that there is a need to continue to intensify efforts and sustain progress in a bid to stay on track with the implementation in this decade of action as the failure of Nigeria to attain the SDGs will negatively impact the overall effort of Africa. Also, the co-chair of the Private Sector Advisory Group on SDGs (PSAG) Bolaji Balogun emphasized the need to continue to mobilise the private sector, which he described as a key partner to ensure sustainable results. He advised the government to increase investments in infrastructure in line with Goal 9 as this remains the bedrock for sustainable development in any society. In her keynote address, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire affirmed that her office has made significant achievements in certain aspects, while a lot still needs to be done in other aspects. She noted that through the institutional frameworks of the office, OSSAP-SDGs has been actively involved in key policy decisions at the global and national levels on the SDGs and has in the last six years, together with other stakeholders, made significant progress and achievements in the coordination and implementation of the SDGs in Nigeria and have also successfully implemented other flagship programmes and initiatives across the country. The presidential adviser said that going forward in the ‘Decade of Action’ for the SDGs, greater coordination and cooperation is required among all stakeholders.