Two persons have lost their lives to a fuel tanker explosion at Odumudu junction area, along the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway in Umunya, Oyi local government area of Anambra State on Tuesday. LEADERSHIP learnt that the tyre of the tanker, which was carrying a petroleum product, bursted and consequently the driver lost control of the truck, it rammed into a shuttle bus and exploded. It was further learnt that two of the shuttle bus’ passengers were burnt to death. It was gathered that the tanker, transporting the petroleum product suspected to be diesel, from Onitsha to another location. The Director, Anambra State Fire Service, Mr. Martins Agbili, when contacted, stated that before his men could arrive the scene of the incident, two persons had been burnt in the fire ignited by the explosion. He, however, stated that his men swiftly went into action and successfully put out the fire, adding that it did not cause further destruction within the vicinity. Agbili explained that, “We received a distress call at about 0840hours (8:40am) on Tuesday 24th May 2022 that a tanker loaded with gas had a burst tyre which resulted in a collision with a shuttle bus that caused the fire explosion at Odumodu junction, Umunya. “We immediately deployed our firemen to move down to the fire incident scene to extinguish the fire. “According to the eyewitnesses and what we could confirm, two people were burnt to death. “By the grace of God, the fire was completely extinguished and no other casualties were recorded in the course of fire fighting.” LEADERSHIP learnt that the Odumudu junction had been posing serious challenge to motorists because the spot had not been done by the contractor handling the reconstruction of the Enugu-Onitsha Expresswsy, and it’s a very busy connection junction where motorists normally navigate from one part of the expressway to the other. As at the time of filing this report, it was learnt that motorists were experiencing heavy traffic gridlock along the expressway because the burnt truck had not been evacuated.