Speaking in Akure, the Ondo State capital yesterday while meeting with delegates at the Cocoa Conference Hall of the Governors’ Office, Tinubu informed the delegates that he was the “sole runner”. The former Lagos State governor appealed to the delegates that they must distinguish the best among the aspirants during the primaries. Tinubu, who further disclosed to the delegates that what Nigeria had been missing is the spirit of unity and the brightness of hope, informed them that he could fix it. He added that he was not in the race to acquire wealth but to better the lots of the country and the people. He said, ‘’If we look at the missing part of the past, we will stay depressed but if we look straight into the future as a great runner, we will see brightness and happiness “Don’t misunderstand Nigeria, it is our country we have no choice. To rebuild is not easy. We created the APC and I’m one of its founding fathers. I’m not sorry about it. I’m very proud of it. “What had been missing in this country is the spirit of unity and the brightness of hope for all of us. The same blood runs in our veins. “Sorrow, problems and anguish are created by human beings. The division is created by those who benefit from the divide and conquer. The truth is we are Nigerians and we hold that greenback passport and we should be proud of it. Yes, it is difficult right now. This is the democracy that we choose. “My running is not because I need a pocket of money. That has passed. It is the love of country, my people, commitment to development, and giving value to education and a better future for our children. “I Bola Tinubu, I’m the sole runner. I know the way, I have seen it. I did it in Lagos. I turned the IGR around. The state is now a reference point. I’ll rebuild and unite, and develop Nigeria. We’ll use our diversity for prosperity rather than division. “When they talk about my health, I tell them, I’m not looking for a wrestling job, I don’t want to beat Ronaldo. I’m a better thinker and a better doer. I want the delegated to distinguish us and separate us like a dip of kerosene on top of water. Tinubu, however, lauded Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for his vision for the state. He further said with him as President, the state would witness enormous economic prosperity. His words: “In Ondo State, you have bitumen. You need a federal government that will put research and development in place and make it a commercial business revenue for Ondo State.  “A seaport is very capital intensive matter. Unfortunately, the country has no long term money, except for short-term. So we have to find investors and partners to get into it and build a deep seaport for Ondo State. All we need is a can-do attitude, a leader who thinks and acts.  “Lagos was a jungle city when I became the governor. I set up a good team that I referred to today as an unbreakable team.  “But Ondo is working, Akeredolu is working, what he needs is me. A very solid partnership that will forge the economy of this country and this state ahead of others. “We can reproduce glass. We have so much underground that we can use for revenue generation and we will be richer for it. We will set our children’s future on the path of success.  “I beg Akeredolu to join me to revive our first national anthem. And I’m ready to serve Nigeria and I promise that Nigeria will see prosperity and performance because I have done it before.”  Reacting, the Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who noted that several aspirants had been to the state but Tinubu had done a lot for the system.  Akeredolu said, “We have noticed that Asiwaju has criss-crossed the length and breadth of this country. When you hear news of consensus or endorsement, do not believe it. We have said that Presidency must come to the South. Governors have spoken. By the grace of God, the train of this country must continue to have a smooth ride.  “The country cannot be divided. Nigeria should be paramount in the heart of all of us. As you go to vote think about Nigeria, think about investment all over the years.  “But you must look at the background and capacity of the person. We wish you the best. You have our good wishes as you proceed. It is only God that will enthrone anybody.”