A former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) deputy governor and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, has declared that he is not in politics for any personal gain. He expressed confidence that he would secure the party’s presidential ticket for the 2023 general elections. The aspirant, however, promised to support and work for anyone who emerges provided the process was transparent, fair and credible. Hayatu-Deen stated this during an interactive session with top media executives in Lagos on Sunday. The trained economist also lamented the security situation in the country; promising a holistic approach if he is elected president. “Let me tell you that this election is for my party to lose. And I can tell you I am confident of winning the ticket. However, if I don’t win, I will support whoever wins as long as the exercise is credible. And let me add that I won’t take any ministerial appointment or any other appointment for that matter. That is not why I am in this race. I was offered one in 1996, but I refused. I am here so that no one will accuse me of not joining to salvage Nigeria when it needed to be salvaged. My father told me to take Nigeria as the centre of my universe. And I did that. That is why I love this country so much,” Hayatu-deen said. He added that Nigeria was on the precipice and it needs somebody of “my competence and experience to return it to its glorious years. I’ve served at national and international levels and I have all it takes to revamp the country’s economy.” Speaking on insecurity, the presidential hopeful said the burning issue at the moment is insecurity. He stated that it was almost 12 years since it started. “First and foremost, what we see might not be what it appears to see. What we see is carnage and loss of human lives and cruelty. We have to understand the underlying issues. I personally think that we have grown exponentially in the last 10 years. And global statistics show that we are the highest growing population. Nothing wrong in human capital assets as long as your national output can take care of this growth.” He explained that there was no way physical security could be taken care of unless economic and other forms of security were taken care off. He said when there is economic security, it means there is a happy population that can engage and become productive. “We also have to do what I call gender security. Our women must be protected. They are doing a lot of things as well as our girls. Girls must return to school and that glass ceiling must be broken so there are equal rights for women. There must also be social security. Nigeria is land of vices like ritual killings, fraud, drugs and corruption. I have never seen the kind of corruption we are witnessing in my entire life. The accountant-general of the federation was alleged to have embezzled N83b. I say alleged. That is the entire federal allocation of Oyo State for a whole two years. If you multiply this by 10,000 across other government appointees and you will see why the economy was actually melting. We also must have energy security. We have to be able to secure those things we have in homes and offices and we need power to do this.” He said even if the nation doubles or triples the number of her armed forces personnel, it won’t still change anything. He said, “Unless these youths have means of living productive lives, we will still be scratching the surface. Within 40 miles outside of major cities in the North, you are confronted by Boko Haram. This thing started in one corner of my state in Borno but has now engulfed the whole North. Look at what is happening in the South-east. It is a mayhem. Someone was beheaded. A whole member of the state House of Assembly. “We in big cities are actually protected and safe but that is only for now. I repeat: for now. Who are the victims of these carnage? Everyday people are already living miserable lives even before the crisis. This is because the economy was not working and now, they are being killed.”