Regardless of denials from his office, speculations remain rife that former President, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, is seriously considering making another attempt at the office he vacated seven years or so ago. At that time, he made history as the first incumbent president in the country’s chequered democracy to concede defeat. The thinking among political watchers is that his decision to go at it, again, is not entirely his own if the reports making the rounds are anything to go by. His visits to the State House, Aso Villa to see President Muhammadu Buhari and a recent one to the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, are reinforcing this buzz that is all over the political space. Curiously, a shadowy group from the North was reported to have paid for his expression of interest and the nomination form proper as contained in a bank statement making the rounds in social and conventional media. Many a political observer perceive his renewed interest in the presidency as part of a plot by some powerful interests from the North to ensure that political power returns to that part of the country in four years. And even within those years, that their hands will not be off the power handle altogether. And that is the worry. The feeling of disappointment among discerning Nigerians is so pervasive that he is about to allow himself to be used to sabotage the political calculations of the south and its constitutionally guaranteed right to serve in that office for eight years. Even worse, some are concerned for him that he is not able to see the trap which is part of a plot to confirm his alleged cluelessness which was the main argument against him by this same APC in 2015. It is instructive to point out that Jonathan, should he succeed in getting nominated as the flagbearer of the party and eventually elected, a tall dream as it is presently, can only serve for a term of four years. Constitutionally, he cannot take the oath of office more than twice. He took one after his election in 2011. Interestingly, he is not having it easy considering the fact that his new found love, the APC, is swarming with candidates, all of them incorrigibly optimistic that they will get the ticket. The outrageously high price tag on the nomination form has not dampened this frenzy that is so infectious. According to reports, Jonathan is hoping to be the consensus candidate of the party that was built and sustained by gurus like Senator Ahmed Tinubu, Professor Yemi Osinbajo and Chibuike Amaechi, to name just a few. How he intends to get this done without structures of any kind beyond handshakes with the President and the party chairman is yet to be seen. However, that hope seems forlorn, already, as the only guarantee he is getting from the APC hierarchy is that the primaries will be free and fair – a subtle way of telling him that he is on his own as the circumstances that influenced his emergence as Vice President in 2007 have changed. There is no Obasanjo as godfather to make things happen for him. Also, there is the huddle of his old lover, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to worry about – that party was the ladder he used to climb to national prominence and political fame. In the meantime, and as 2023 approaches, the Igbo of the South east are clamouring for the presidency as a matter of natural justice, equity and good conscience. Already, the pursuit is gaining traction as a cross section of Nigerians outside the zone are beginning to key in to the position of the people of the south east on the issue. It is pertinent to recall that as President, Jonathan enjoyed the goodwill of the voters from the same South east. Without an Igbo candidate on the ballot, he was the closest candidate to the voters in the region in terms of geographical contiguity. He reminded the Igbo that his middle name is Azikiwe, their political patriarch, and was adopted as the Igbo candidate and given massive support. Not a few are of the opinion that part of the problem the Igbo have with President Buhari is because of the fabled five per cent support they gave him in the election that brought him to power. It is from that perspective that the people of the zone see his angling for the presidency, this time round, as an act of betrayal. He is perceived as coming out to play the spoiler’s role to frustrate the quest for a president of Igbo extraction. Already, some of his best friends, including those within the APC, are beginning to use the word miracle to describe the probability of his getting the ticket let alone winning the seat. Be that as it may, this newspaper is of the view that Jonathan has time to think through the matter before deciding on what to do. His ambition to go at the presidency one more time is, without doubt, a booby trap that may lead to political oblivion. Should he decide to go ahead, the fear is that, in the end, his relevance, or whatever is left of it, will be subject of academic discussion on how not to manage one’s inordinate ambition.