At a time like this when Nigeria is at the cusp and threshold of another electoral cycle, it‘s a moment for well meaning Nigerian‘s to assist with the provision of a directional compass and torchlight that will hopefully point the way forward for us all. It‘s against this background that I have decided to call on APC DELEGATES, who are preparing to cast their votes very soon for that Presidential Candidate that will fly it‘s Presidential Banner in the 2023 Presidential Elections and also, Nigerians who will eventually cast their votes for their favoured Presidential candidate at the nick of time. This intervention has become a compelling political sine qua non at a time when all manner of persons have shown interest in becoming Nigeria‘s President. Let me say without equivocation and post-haste too, that if we are looking for a man deeply committed to PROJECT NIGERIA, then both the APC AND NIGERIAN‘S, should only look at the direction of HON. CHIBUIKE ROTIMI AMAECHI. I dare say with a huge sense of historic responsibility and a deep commitment to Nigeria, that of all the APC Presidential aspirants seeking the electoral imprimatur of our APC delegates,  AMAECHI, is the only one coming to the Presidential table with the necessary composite and cognate experience suited for the job. He has been forged in the furnace of parliamentary interstices where he became Speaker of the River‘s state House of Assembly for 8 years and also the Chairman of the Conference of Speakers for those 8 year‘s. He also brings with him the experience of been a Governor of Rivers State for 8 years in which period, his colleagues also elected him as Chairman of the Governors Forum for 8 years. Only until recently, he was a member of Nigeria‘s Federal Executive Council, where he served and very successfully too as Minister for  Transportation for about 7 years. Equally of importance is the fact that AMAECHI, has served meritoriously, without blemish and coruscatingly so, in all these offices he has held, and i will now proceed to give a few examples not been able to exhaust his strings of achievements in a press conference of this nature. Nigeria is today, currently steeped in a guagmire of insecurity bugbear and i dare say with all sense of humility and responsibility that he‘s the ONLY APC PRESIDENTIAL ASPIRANT, that had been faced with this kind of hydra-headed security challenge which he tackled headlong and very successfully too as Governor of Rivers State. Let me quickly recall that at the time when HON CHIBUIKE ROTIMI AMAECHI, became the Governor of Rivers State, the Port Harcourt he inherited was like a war and sanguinary zone where life had become nasty, brutish and short. It was to AMAECHI‘S credit that he confronted the security challenge and wrestled it to a standstill and  put in place a technology driven security architecture and a democratic rejigging of the Rivers State economy, Rivers State became a haven for foreign investments. On the educational frontiers, AMAECHI was a dazzling success with the educational revolution he launched. It had so much of a far reaching effect that he attracted to himself both national and international plaudits. He was commended at that time by UNICEF for his prodigious commitment to both health and educational infrastructure. He also got encomiums from the former Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Olmert. He declared a state of emergency in the education sector, awarded over 3,000 foreign and local scholarships, employed over 13,000 teachers, made education free from primary to secondary level, supported the University of Port Harcourt, a federal government institution with infrastructure and human capital development, with a host of other giant strides. His love for the poor people is also felt in the Health sector, with his provision of free health services to all her citizens in all government-owned health centres. One can safely pontificate that while AMAECHI served as Minister of Transportation in the Federal Executive Council, until recently, he brought a singular and perfervid determination to bear in the clinical discharge of his responsibilities as usual, that he became one of the defining and remarkable success beacons of the Buhari administration. The revolution that HON.CHIBUIKE ROTIMI AMAECHI brought to bear in the transportation sector and particularly in the Railway Revolution and Maritime security is unmatched and unequalled in Nigeria.The details of his strides in this area is recent history and it‘s an ineffable feat that‘s visible to the blind and audible to the deaf. We are currently at the threshold of history, where we need a Nigerian President not only forged in the furnace of deep political experience that traverses both parliamentary interstices and executive governmental acumen, both at the state and national level, which AMAECHI ALONE BRINGS TO THE PRESIDENTIAL TABLE, we also need a President that has shown considerable passion for the Nigerian project. It‘s on this note that I appeal to ALL APC DELEGATES to the Presidential National Convention, to vote in AMAECHI, as the APC PRESIDENTIAL FLAG BEARER for the 2023 Presidential Elections.  –Obahiagbon, a former member, federal house of representatives, is an APC chieftain