Despite a seemingly unwritten rule that the 2023 presidency should be zoned to the south, it has not stopped Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, from declaring and pursuing his intention to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Since last year the governor has been hinting at a presidential run but some political analysts dismissed his ambition. The thinking was that the governor was just clowning and had no intention of contesting the election. Indeed, there have been strong calls for the presidency to be zoned to the south but the governor has often dismissed zoning as unconstitutional. “APC has no zoning formula as far as the party’s law is concerned, no zoning formula as far as the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is concerned. Poverty. Insecurity, lack of infrastructure has no zoning. “These are the problems we are confronted with today, and they have no zoning. The party delegates would vote for me. “I would prefer that we go by merit and vote for who can get these problems solved,” he said. According to the governor, the north-central has been marginalized in the presidency as the South East. So far Bello has been proving naysayers wrong by declaring his intention to run for the presidency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress ( APC). Bello, who made his intention public in March at the Eagle Square in Abuja, said Nigerians deserved a better treatment. The Kogi governor said he was in the race to win the election and consolidate on the achievements of President Buhari. He said his administration would not allow non-state actors to carry arms against the state, adding that he would do everything possible to enthrone the unity and progress of the country. “I am here to declare my intention to run for the presidency of Nigeria in 2023. I will run on the platform of the APC. I will ensure that progress is made steadily in all sectors. I will ensure the unity and progress of Nigeria. “I am not one of those who see doom for the country. My scorecard is verifiable and tangible in Kogi State. 2023 is for the survival of Nigeria. “I won’t tolerate non-state actors to carry arms against the state, irrespective of what their grievances are. We must give peace a chance,” the governor said. In a strategic move, he appointed Hafsat Abiola-Costello, daughter of the presumed winner of the June 1993 presidential election, late Moshood Abiola, to lead the presidential campaign organisation. Also, the director-general of the M.K.O. Abiola Campaign Organisation and former Senate deputy leader, Jonathan Zwingina, was named the national coordinator of the Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, and a former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, as deputy national coordinator. The governor intends to reprise the Hope 93 campaign slogan of MKO Abiola. Most Nigerians have lauded the boldness of the governor and have often asked what he wants. Some media commentators say he is eyeing to be a running mate to any of the southern candidates or a ministerial slot if the APC wins in 2023. Some have also contended that he is pushing his luck too far. But Lady Luck got him to his present position today. Recall the death of the APC candidate, Abubakar Audu in the Kogi gubernatorial election just before the results were announced paved the way for Bello to become governor because the electoral laws and the constitution had not envisaged such a scenario. He finished second in the APC primaries and was subsequently nominated by the party to contest the by-election and became governor by a divine stroke of luck. The governor also took the bull by the horns by becoming the first aspirant to buy the N100 presidential nomination form of the APC. Presidential aspirants who have bought the APC forms are Minister of State for Education, Chief Emeka Nwajiuba; Ebonyi State Governor, Engr Dave Umahi; former Imo State Governor, and Senator Rochas Okorocha; and former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. It is expected that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Transportation minister, Rotimi Ameachi, will pick up their forms this week. So far more than 17 aspirants have declared their intention to contest the presidency on the platform of the APC. And Bello, who was one of the first northerners on the list, has no intention of throwing in the towel. To be sure he is also the youngest aspirant which he often counts as his selling point. According to him the most marginalised group in the country are the youths and women so it is time for a young person to become the president of Nigeria. For now, the governor is swimming against the tide as the popular sentiment is for power to shift to the south. The question is will he throw in the towel before the primaries or will he dare the odds and contest the primaries?