Founder of Shecluded and alumna of the Academy for Women Entrepreneurs, Ifeoma Uddoh, has emerged as the overall winner of the SelectUSA Tech Nigeria Pitch Competition. Shecluded is a fintech start-up dedicated to bridging financial inclusion gap among women of colour. The U.S. government is a longstanding, committed supporter of entrepreneurship as a key driver for stimulating economic growth and increasing prosperity in Nigeria. On Monday, the U.S. Consulate General hosted the SelectUSA Tech Pitch Competition for Nigerian female-led tech startups interested in expanding their business operations into the United States. Nine startups made their pitch before a panel of accomplished U.S. and Nigerian business leaders, including U.S. Consulate representatives, and received valuable feedback on their business proposals. Following a close contest, Ifeoma Uddoh, emerged as the overall winner of the SelectUSA Tech Nigeria Pitch Competition. Uddoh will receive a complimentary ticket to attend the annual SelectUSA Investment Summit in Washington DC from June 26th to 29th, with the opportunity to pitch at the Regional, Middle East & Africa Pitch event, to venture capitalists, corporate investors, representatives from startup ecosystems, and industry experts. The summit will offer Uddoh an unprecedented opportunity to learn how to expand her business to United States, make the right connections, learn about investment destinations, and discover relevant resources to move the start-up forward. U.S. Consulate deputy Public Affairs officer, Jennifer Foltz said the U.S. government is proud to support young female entrepreneurs who are key to Nigeria’s future prosperity. “We look forward to continuing to foster a strong entrepreneurial culture by providing skills training, resources, mentorship, and opportunities for Nigerian entrepreneurs to expand their businesses locally and to the United States,” Foltz added. The annual SelectUSA Investment Summit is where business potential meets business opportunity. The Investment Summit connects qualified companies with U.S. economic development organizations to facilitate business investment and job creation.