The Rural Electrification Agency (REA) in collaboration with the Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) has launched the Energising Agriculture Progamme (EAP) to enhance effective utilisation of energy in rural communities to boost productivity in the agriculture value chain. The programme is borne out of the desire to see the use of electricity productively in agricultural value chains to drive a virtuous cycle of rural development by increasing incomes, thereby improving the financial stability of the energy provider. Managing director of the REA, Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad, speaking during the launch of the EAP in Abuja yesterday, lauded the Global Energy Alliance for People and Planet (GEAPP) for providing the funding for the pilot phase of the programme. Ahmad said EAP would facilitate the unlocking of various opportunities in the sector by developing projects that will accelerate the productive use of electricity in rural communities. “We ventured into the Energy-Agriculture space to create a nexus that allows us to utilise the key activity in rural communities to improve the productive use of electricity, which  includes agricultural activities. The key priority for the REA is to ensure that the solutions we deploy in rural communities have both social and economic impacts on the lives of the people in those communities,” Ahmad said. Also speaking, special adviser to the President on Agriculture, Dr Andrew Kwasari said the EAP was in line with the federal government’s plan to empower the rural communities. “I think that this is the best thing that has happened. Power is so important to rural economy, not because it lights up the homes, but also because it solves the problem that is driving rural smallholder farmers to turn to deforestation as a source power, the felling of trees as a source of power to either process local rice or other produce. “So basically, if we can substitute this with off-grid electricity, what REA is proposing across the country, we can successfully empower the over 6 million Smallholder farmers to boost their productivity.” Giving an insight into the EAP project, REA executive director, Technical services, Engr. Barka Sajou said the 2022 Agro-Energy Programmes three keys project namely:  provision of high-capacity Solar Home Systems, scaling mini-grids for agro-processing clusters for produce such as Rice, Tomatoes, Wheat, among others; secondly, provision of decentralized solar water pumps to irrigation farmers to facilitate all year round crop cultivation as well as provision of Solar Home Systems for productive use.