Less than 24 hours after a detained governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State, Hon. Farah Dagogo, was granted bail by a Federal High Court, a Rivers State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt has remanded him at the Port Harcourt Maximum Security Correctional Centre. Although journalists were not allowed to cover proceedings in the High Court, LEADERSHIP gathered that Dagogo, who is also a serving member of the House of Representatives, was brought to Court at about 2:50pm and was carried into the Courtroom by four fully armed security operatives. The presiding Judge, Hon. Justice Chinwendu Nwogu, however, adjourned the matter till Monday, May 16, 2022, as none of the counsels to the defendant was in Court. Meanwhile, Dagogo has accused Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, and the State Commissioner of Police of dragging him to Court despite his deteriorating health condition. Dagogo, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt by his media aide, Ibrahim Lawal, said the State High Court where he was arraigned was different from the earlier State High Court that had adjourned the matter till May 16, 2022. The statement reads in part: “On Friday, May 13, the Rivers State Government under the orders of Governor Nyesom Wike caused his willing ally and tool, the State Police Commissioner, Friday Eboka, for Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo to be presented in Court despite his very deteriorating health conditions. Chief of Staff to the Governor, Emeka Woke led police officials from Government House to the Court. “Infact, the Police forcefully brought Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo on stretcher, and the Chief of Staff, Emeka Woke, was busy harassing and threatening journalists at the Court from taking videos or pictures of how he was brought in on stretcher. The journalists were further barred from going into the court room. “The High Court, where Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo was arraigned, had adjourned to May 16, 2022 only for Governor Nyesom Wike and CP Friday Eboka to break all known laws in the Country by bringing the matter forward before Justice Chiwendu Nwogu, today, May 13th. “Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo lawyers were not served neither were they aware of the change of date nor reason for change of date and as such were not available to defend him. “This renewed judiciary onslaught by the Rivers State Governor and Police Commissioner, Friday Eboka, was  pre-determined to disobey and make mockery of the Federal High Court Order of May 12, 2022 that granted Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo bail but which was ignored and disobeyed by Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka. “All these are orchestrated and well planned plot to gradually kill Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo in Police custody. If anything untoward happens to Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, the State Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka,  Camp Commandant to the Governor, Efeturi Irikefe, Chief of Staff to the Governor, Emeka Woke and others should be held responsible. “This information is for the world to be aware of the impunity, disregard for the court of law, executive rascality and other known norms alien to a sane society under democratic clime, being perpetrated by the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, who is a lawyer and Police Commissioner Friday Eboka. “The Judiciary is being raped in Rivers State and the Police has effectively proven to be a political tool of the Rivers State Government. “We await to see the actions and reactions of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, whose temple of Justice is being desecrated and the Inspector General of Police, who was supposed to ensure that the Police are responsible for protection of lives and properties.”