There is palpable tension in Niger State All Progressives Congress as allegations of changed delegates list and hijack of delegates form trail preparations ahead of the forthcoming primaries in the state. LEADERSHIP gathered that local government party executives are peeved by the development and some of them are threatening to confront the state party executives who allegedly orchestrated the plan. It was learnt that the delegates list was allegedly altered to suit the permutations in favour of the preferred aspirants loyal to some power that be in the party. A local government chairman of the party who prefer anonymity told LEADERSHIP that ” already they have changed entirely the elected delegates list in no fewer than  five local government areas while in other local governments, two to six wards are affected.” The local government party chairman claimed “the delegates list for the Niger North was handed over to a former local government chairman of Kontagora, that of Niger East to another party stalwart and that of Niger South to another person. The three were the same people dropping the governor’s name even when the governor said he had no preferred aspirant.” It was alleged by another local government party executive from Niger East that, “three party chieftains are working in collaboration with three state executives of the party and they are capitalizing on the neutral posture of the governor to drop names and oppress us.” Another source of the party from Niger south disclosed that, “If this is allowed by Governor Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello who is the leader of the party, we are already talking with some people in NNPP we will defect in large number and they will understand the implications of their actions.” They claimed that the altered delegates list affected  those to  elect  governorship , senatorial, House of Representatives and the state Assembly flag bearers. “This is a desperate attempt to impose some candidates on the people. This is what killed us in the PDP before we came to the APC. We are repeating the same thing here now. This is wrong” a zonal party executive who preferred anonymity told LEADERSHIP. Reacting to the allegations the party chairman, Zakari Haliru Jikantoro, said that it was not true that the alterations were arbitrarily done advancing reasons for the alterations. He said the alterations were done because of the new guidelines that of the five delegates: two must be women and the other reasons is the replacement of those who had defected to another party as well as those who had passed on after they might have been elected as delegates. He said if changes were made on the delegates list it was done legitimately and not massively as claimed by those alleging, adding that it was not true that he handed the delegates’ form to anybody outside the party hierarchy.