The pronouncement which came amidst preparations by both the D’Tigers and D’Tigress for upcoming engagements has been erroneously or purposefully condemned by several commentators. However, close watchers of the power tussle within the NBBF in the last five years believe the federal government’s decision was long overdue and did not come as a surprise because there have been similar calls from different quarters in the past, but the government adamantly refused to listen hoping that common sense will prevail. The main function of a national sport federation is to provide more opportunities for people to get involved, increase participation levels and help people progress their level of sport along a ‘sport development continuum’. But for five years the gladiators in the NBBF watched the local talents wasted away as their fight for self-benefit cripple the domestic basketball league and denied the local talents opportunities to be spotted by club scouts. The basketball courts in the country were shut down while administrators fought for the control of the sport and just like the saying that when two elephants are fighting, it’s the grass that suffers. Nigeria’s basketball was hit to its lowest point in the home front. Firstly, the loss of the Kwese title sponsorship of a $12 million five-year deal after its first year. The inaugural season saw Champions Kano Pillars go home with N20 million naira and a N25 million split at N15m and N10m for the first and second runners up. It was the highest prize money paid for any professional sports league in Nigeria and the entire West Africa region. The battle has now extended into five years and a lot of clubs have folded up due to the inability to sustain income and generate income from sponsors as Zenith Bank also bagged out of sponsorship of women basketball league and the players have been left the game in droves with no choice but to become artisans in order to make a living since their beloved sport and income source has been taken away. Not only players have suffered the lack of a domestic league, the coaches too have also had to bear the brunt with the chief coach of Kano Pillars Basketball Club, Sani Ahmed narrated his ordeal of the leadership crisis in the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) to LEADERSHIP Sports recently. He said the inactive domestic basketball league dragged the clubs backward and made it difficult catering for members of his family without the usual stipends and match-winning bonuses from competitions.  “It was not easy for us, but I thank God that Madam understands the situation,” Ahmed said. “Most of the home based basketball players depend on the allowance they get from competitions to feed their family and pay their children school fees and so on. “The inactiveness of the domestic leagues for four years have dragged the teams backwards and affected the players. “Secondly, the players could not aspire for anything because the dream of every player is to play for his national teams but when there is no league, no hope for the home-based players. Most of them have decided not to play basketball again, but I hope it will begin to change for the better now that the Federal Ministry Youth and Sports has intervened in the lingering crisis in NBBF.” With no domestic season and match rustiness, the continental club championship windows were slammed while the national team coaches’ call-up has been offered to their foreign counterparts for the aforementioned reasons not necessarily because of a better record of performance. Nigerians would be glad to note that the Nigeria women’s basketball team, D’Tigress took a stand as a team after they lamented the poor treatment being meted out to them by the NBBF officials. In a video posted on social media, members of the team individually expressed their disappointment and anger, calling out the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) and threatened to boycott future international call-ups by the Federation. In the video, D’Tigress players outlined the injustices allegedly perpetrated on them by the board of the NBBF, led by Engr. Musa Kida. Their male counterparts, D’Tigers, signed a petition that they will no longer play forNigeria unless an individual was removed as President NBBF. “In light of the mismanagement issues experience during the Tokyo Olympics, Afrobasket Qualifiers, and within the domestic league, please consider this signed petition our official declaration that we will not participate in any future national team competitions until the resignation of Musa Kida as NBBF president has been effected,” the D’Tigers stated in a petition signed by 15 of the players. While the impasse continues, there have been concerns raised for the management of basketball with the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development paying the D’Tigress their $100, 000 meant for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games from the NBBF Central Bank account. The Ministry also in an attempt to safeguard Nigeria’s slot for the 2022 Basketball African League went ahead to conduct the Final 8 phase of the Nigeria Premier, but FIBA Africa in collaboration with one of the factions of NBBF banned Nigeria from participating in Basketball Africa League (BLA) because of leadership disagreements. The Ministry and Federal Government were misrepresented several times to FIBA by elements from the factions and was threatened with a ban for interference. Every direct and indirect effort made to many stakeholders by the Ministry to reconcile the wary factions ended in deaf eyes while FIBA rejected government invitations to visit Nigeria and step into the basketball crisis. Though the withdrawal of the national teams from international basketball competitions can’t be a welcome development, Nigerians should understand the government’s predicament in taking such a harsh decision to revamp the sport from the grassroots than watch some characters continue ruining the future of thousands of basketball stars in the country.   