Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has demolished shanties and makeshift structures in the Kubwa district of Bwari area council, to intensify efforts against the activities of scavengers and criminals in the area. Senior special assistant on Monitoring, Inspection, and Enforcement to the FCT minister, Mr. Ikharo Attah, led the operation in collaboration with the leader of the Joint Security Team, Solomon Adebayo. Attah during the demolition exercise explained that the operation was necessitated by the increased rate of insecurity in the area, especially close to Kubwa train station where people are being attacked from 6.00 pm. “We came here to address security problems; we came here with the full support and directive of the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, and FCT Commissioner of Police, Mr. Sunday Babaje. “This effort will enable the FCT administration to tackle the issue of miscreants and scavengers who wreak havoc on persons in the territory. This is the connecting area between Kubwa and Biazhin and there are so many cases of reports from this rail corridor and rail station that many people cannot even pass after 6.00 pm. “You dare not pass this area after 6 pm. Many people have been robbed, stabbed with a knife and other dangerous weapons as well as dispossessed of their belongings here,” he said. He, however, said the bulldozer could not get to a particular stretch so the team had to set the shanties and makeshift structures on fire, with the promise that the operation would be sustained to ensure that scavengers and other illegal occupants of the area did not return. “I cannot quantify the number of shanties but I desire to sack the shanties and free this area of all criminal elements. The residents are in jubilation even though they are scared to show their faces to journalists. They are happy because some boys scale the fence of the estate around the area and rob them without being challenged,” he said. Attah further disclosed that in the course of the operation, some drugs that are being sold around the area were found and handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency’s personnel. Reacting, a resident of the area who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of being attacked commended the FCTA for a job well done. “This is a very strong spot and no man’s land because they take anything that can make them high. They take and sell hard drugs. “Once they take drugs, they do not respect anyone. This is very dangerous, we do our business during the day and close before 6.00 p.m. because of the insecurity situation around here,” he said.             