Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and a former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, are among the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirants expected at a meeting of South West leaders of the party today. Former interim national chairman of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande, is expected to preside over the meeting scheduled to hold at the Lagos House in Marina, Lagos State. The meeting was convened by Akande and a former governor of Ogun State, Chief Segun Osoba, to see how the aspirants could close ranks and work together in the interest of the zone in order not jeopardize the chances of the aspirants from the zone getting the ticket of the ruling APC in the forthcoming primary election. South West aspirants that are seeking the APC presidential ticket in 2023 are Osinbajo (Ogun), a former House of Representatives Speaker, Dimeji Bankole (Ogun), Senator Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Tinubu (Lagos), the chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Dr Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti) and Pastor Tunde Bakare. Amid speculations that the meeting might not hold due to the resolve and body language of some aspirants from the region, it was gathered that some event planners were contacted by the state government to decorate the venue of the meeting. As of the time of filing this report, sources close to Osoba told our correspondent that though the former Ogun State governor was at present in London, the United Kingdom, there was strong assurance that he would attend the meeting. Although efforts by our correspondent to reach Akande to confirm his attendance at the proposed meeting in Lagos proved abortive as the Ila-Orangun-born APC chieftain could not be reached for comment, his close associate who spoke on the condition of anonymity said Akande would not only be in attendance but would preside over the meeting. He said, ‘’Chief Akande has always been a vanguard of peaceful resolution of issues and would be favourably disposed to the arrangement. He will be in Lagos to preside over the meeting. By virtue of his status and experience, the meeting will yield a useful dividend. Being a man of integrity, his counsel will hold water.’’ Also commenting on the imperatives of the Lagos meeting, the director of mobilisation and contacts, Osinbajo South West Group (OSG) Wale Sodeinde confirmed that the vice president would attend the meeting. He said, ‘’At least for once, Yoruba leaders need to jettison sentiments and face the reality. The Professor Yemi Osinbajo that we all know in Nigeria of today is the last man standing to take the country to the promised land. “Whether meeting or no meeting, we are of the strong belief that conveners of that meeting need to impress on other presidential aspirants to leave the contest for the race for Osinbajo to enable him continue from where his principal will be dropping the baton if truly government is a continuum.