Governor Udom spoke on Thursday when he received a letter notifying him of his nomination as the LEADERSHIP Governor of the Year 2021, presented to him by the Group Managing Director of LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group, Muazu Elazeh, and a Director of the media organisation, Abraham Nda-Isaiah. “We must support LEADERSHIP to succeed and soar higher. The newspaper must not die,” Udom said, noting that the award will spur him to do more for the development of Akwa Ibom state. The Akwa Ibom governor, who is currently in the race to clinch his party’s presidential ticket to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari I 2023, lauded LEADERSHIP newspaper for always speaking truth to power. Earlier, Group Managing Director of LEADERSHIP, Elazeh, said the award was in recognition of Governor Udom’s relentless drive to diversify Akwa Ibom state’s economy through various targeted investments, especially agribusiness, Ibom Air and Ibom Deep Seaport, among other signature projects. In November 2021, LEADERSHIP had in line with its annual tradition of celebrating individuals, organisations and brands that have distinguished themselves in their various fields of endeavour and made outstanding contributions to Nigeria and the world in the course of the year, picked the nominees for its 2021 awards. The formal presentation of the award and conference is scheduled to hold on May 17, 2022 at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja. The LEADERSHIP Conference and Awards is an annual event where the media organisation celebrates those who had distinguished themselves in both the public and private sectors in the previous year. The theme of this year’s conference is, “Resetting Nigeria: Culture, Politics, Geography and the role of Big Ideas”. Two eminent Nigerians were jointly nominated for the award of LEADERSHIP Persons of the Year. They are Nigeria’s Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, and Director General of the World Trade Organisation, Dr Ngozi Okonjo Iweala. In other categories of the award, the duo of Tinubu and Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, emerged joint winners of the LEADERSHIP Politician of the Year 2021 award, while three governors emerged joint winners of the Governor of the Year 2021 Award. They are Gombe State governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya; Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed and his Akwa Ibom State counterpart, Udom Emmanuel. Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, clinched the Public Service Person of the Year 2021 award, while the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari, clinched the CEO of the Year Award.
Chairman of Tony Elumelu Foundation, Tony Onyemaechi Elumelu, won the LEADERSHIP Business Person of the Year 2021 award while the Managing Director of First Bank, Dr Adesola Adeduntan won the Banker of the Year 2021 award. Other award categories are Social Impact Person of the Year, which was won by Hon Ned Nwoko; Oil and Gas Local Content Champion of the Year went to Dr ABC Orjiako; Company of the Year, Ibom Air; Product of the Year, Fearless Energy Drink; Environmental Impact Company of the Year, Bicenergy and the E-Commerce Company of the Year, which went to Flutterwave.
The Artiste of the Year 2021 award went to Maryam Bukar Hassan; Fidelity Bank clinched the Bank of the Year 2021 award, even as the LEADERSHIP Government Agency of the Year 2021 award went to National Drug Law Enforcement Agency-NDLEA. SportsPerson of the Year award went to Blessing Oborodudu who won gold medal at the Tokyo 2020 olympics m, while Rejoice Oghenero, an SS3 student at Kaima, Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA of Bayelsa State, clinched the LEADERSHIP Outstanding Young Person of the Year 2021.