Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, and his Imo State counterpart, Hope Uzodinma, yesterday led some Senators to return the presidential nomination and expression of interest forms of Senate president, Ahmed Lawan, to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking after returning the forms at the party’s national secretariat, Governor Uzodimma said they submitted the forms in the spirit of espirit de corps, noting that most of them on the team are members of the National Assembly. He stated: “Like you know most of us here are from the National Assembly, some serving some are non-serving. Particularly like me I left the senate on sabbatical to go and contest election in Imo state and I’m on borrowed status in Imo state as the governor. “Today we are here in solidarity to accompany our leader the Senate President to submit his duly completed form and we have submitted the form. In the police it is called esprit de corps.” Similarly, former minister of Science, Innovation and Technology, Dr Ogbonaya Onu, submitted his presidential nomination forms to the party yesterday. His spokesperson, Dr Uche Egenti, said having Onu as the next Nigerian president in 2023 is having a stable and a science, technology and innovative driven Nigeria where crime will be stopped. He said, “It’s like putting a round peg in a round hole because you know very, very well that is a man of very strong antecedents; a man who is very intelligent, very credible, tested, trusted by the people, an embodiment of humility, and a selfless person.” On consensus, he said every party member is supposed to abide by the rules, adding that if the party feels that consensus is the best option to make Nigeria work the minister has no choice. “My principle is a man of faith. I don’t need anyone to tell me that you know that very well, that he is man that does not like controversies. He will be at peace with anything that will make Nigeria work,” Egenti stated. He urged the party to be transparent, sincere and disciplined, saying it is only when the party is transparent, sincere and embraces deep discipline and shows the world it is prepared to lead well that everybody would be happy. “My prayer is that the party should be sincere, strong and be credible in whatever thing they do so that they can show the world that they are ready to get Nigeria working again,” he stated.