Suru Worldwide Ventures Limited, promoters of Best Western Hotel in Opebi area of Lagos state, has called on the federal government as well as the Lagos state government to intervene on the breach of court order by the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON). Speaking at the site of the hotel which is currently under construction, the managing director of Suru Worldwide, Mr Edward Akinlade, alleged that the case between the company and AMCON is still in the court of law with a stay of execution on the property over an alleged debt of N27 billion. According to him, AMCON had late last year, stripped the building, auctioned off the interior fixings of the hotel which he says is valued at over N6 billion and had started reconstruction of the building last month.  He also called on the Lagos state government to stop the ongoing work at the building saying the project has been compromised as the contractor had demolished critical parts of the building thus rendering it unsafe. While calling on AMCON to state the true position on the hotel or if it had sold it, he prayed that the corporation be called to order, stop the ongoing work and return the hotel to its previous state. “On the 22nd of September 2017, over 100 mobile policemen arrived at this hotel and tear gassed everybody including the guests, and the staff. They gave us a court order and the court order was AMCON versus Inspector General  of Police. Our name was not mentioned. So, they applied to the court that the police should give them support to take over their property. “So they kicked us out and we went to the court of appeal on that judgement and became a party. And after two years, Court of Appeal gave us a ruling that the order they brought is null and void and if they want to take possession of this hotel, they need to go back to the federal high court and put our name in it. AMCON has now appealed to the Supreme Court and the case is coming up in September. “AMCON says we are owing them N27 billion. Justice Hassan says we are not owing them anything. They went to the Court of Appeal on that judgement, they were knocked back and we won that we are not owing them anything. Again, they went to the Supreme Court. We have two cases in the Supreme Court. One is for the possession of this hotel, and the other one is whether we are owing or not,” Akinlade said. Speaking further, he said AMCON have been in possession of the hotel since 2017. “Some months ago, we were called by Lagos state government that we are working at the hotel because they have on their record who is the owner of the hotel, and we said we are not working and we were told that they have sealed it. “Another time, they rang us saying we have broken the seal. We said we have not broken any seal, we are not the ones working there, it must be AMCON and then AMCON demolished and auctioned everything inside the hotel. Hotel that is worth over N7 billion in 2017, If you do a valuation of it now, the carcass maybe it  worth N500 million. “If they have sold it, we do not know.  AMCON need to  tell us specifically who and how the hotel is been refurbished? They have no approval from Lagos state to do what they are doing and that is a contravention of Lagos State Act.  Lagos state has placed a Stop Work Notice on the property. If that hotel falls now all the people inside  will die and that will be another Lagos state inefficiency,” he said. Meanwhile, the Best Western Hotel boss stated that in the last two years, they have petitioned the  Attorney General’s Office and “the  AG said we should go and pay them something and an amount was agreed inside AG’s office and we wrotet to them, obviously without prejudice to the case in court. They came back and turned it down. “The House of Representatives investigating committee were petitioned and they invited AMCON four times, they never showed up and up till today, that is still open there. We have a court of appeal judgement in our hands that says we are the owner of the hotel but because AMCON have placed gunmen there. . “AMCON has committed contempt of the court and hopefully Supreme Court will be notified that they have damaged the assets involved. AMCON needs to be called to order to stop what they are doing and fix the hotel in terms of the damages they have done.