United Nations Children Emergency Fund (UNICEF) yesterday said it had provided 102, 859 children with access to inclusive, equitable and quality education in a safe and protective learning environment in Borno State. UNICEF education manager in Maiduguri Field Office, Paola Ripamonti, made the disclosure at a press conference held on EduTrac System and the Mainstreaming of Psychosocial Support into Formal Education in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. Rimamonti said the conference was aimed at highlighting the pilot of the EduTrac mobile phone-based data collection system and the mainstreaming of psychosocial support into formal education in Borno State. She said the interventions were landmarks to improve educational planning, expand access to education for conflict-affected children and strengthen learning outcomes while also improving their mental health. “But first let me acknowledge all media professionals here for your support in promoting the wellbeing of vulnerable girls and boys in Borno State and across north-east Nigeria. From malnutrition to child protection, your unbiased reportage has helped to bring issues that affect children to the limelight. UNICEF commends your efforts as stakeholders. “I also welcome all our partners not only for your presence here but your commitment to the implementation of the European Union Support to Response, Recovery and Resilience project to ensuring that vulnerable children in Borno State have equal opportunity to quality education, and to be the best version of themselves. “The project, which wraps up this month, has provided 102,859 children (51% girls) with access to inclusive, equitable and quality education in a safe and protective learning environment. A total of 29,985 out-of-school youths and adolescents (55% females) were supported with vocational skills, including poultry farming, shoe making, soap and bag production, tailoring, painting, and interlock tiles production. “These youths are back in their communities and earning income to provide for their family’s basic needs. Some of them have even returned to school and are supporting their education with income earned from their businesses,” said the UNICEF education manager. She said among other achievements of the project, 30 schools have been constructed or rehabilitated, provided with furniture and have sex-segregated WASH facilities, adding that 58 temporary learning spaces were constructed or rehabilitated, and 28 vocational centres were established across six LGAs. She added that the interventions supported over 300,000 children and youths (52% females), noting that among them were 20,104 (53% girls) out-of-school children who now accessed informal learning classes and 16,630 children (52% girls) who transitioned into the formal education system; and over 29,000 youths (55% females) gained employable skills through vocational training. “Additionally, 750 members of School-based Management Committees (44% females) have improved school management skills; 1,630 teachers and Community Volunteer Teachers (49% females) strengthened skills on various themes such as psycho-social support, gender-sensitive pedagogy and effective classroom management. “The education sector in north-east Nigeria is one of the worst hit by protracted armed conflict. Among many other interventions led by UNICEF, the European Union Support to Response, Recovery and Resilience project in Borno State led to a partnership with the state government to provide an integrated education response  that generated demand for inclusive, and equitable quality education from communities, strengthened  capacity of education personnel to gather and analyze school data for better educational planning and empowered school managers and community leaders as active participants in the education response,” she further said. Stakeholders at the press conference pleaded with UNICEF not to wrap up their intervention but to focus on how to take the intervention to the northern part of Borno State which was backward educationally even prior to the Boko Haram insurgency. Some of the beneficiaries of the intervention narrated how it have improved their lives and thanked UNICEF for the intervention.