American National Football League Football frontrunner, the Houston Texans continued assembling their impressive draft haul at the weekend, trading up to the No. 44 pick with the Cleveland Browns, and selecting Alabama wide receiver John Metchie III. The Texans sent the No. 68, 108 and 124 picks to Cleveland, and will keep the 107th pick. With the addition of Metchie, son of a Nigerian businessman who is currently the President General of Umueri community in Anambra state, the Texans now add a talented No. 2 wideout to pair with the recently extended Brandin Cooks and give second year quarterback Davis Mills a legitimate deep threat in the passing game. In his last season at Alabama, Metchie finished third in the SEC with 96 catches for 1,142 yards and eight touchdowns, averaging 11.9 yards per catch. While speaking about Metchie, Alabama quarterback Bryce Young said- “He works extremely hard, carries himself and conducts himself professionally. Ever since I met him on my official visit as a senior in high school, he always conducted himself as a pro. Someone who is going to work day in and day out, someone who is very dynamic and a huge playmaker. I was blessed to have two special guys outside. He is going to be special.” With his new deal, Metchie now joins an extremely talented haul of rookies in the 2022 Texans class, joining LSU corner Derek Stingley, Texas A&M offensive lineman Kenyon Green, and Baylor safety Jalen Pitre. He is also the second wideout from Alabama taken in as many rounds, with Jameson Williams going in the top 10. Metchie was born in Taiwan. His mother is Taiwanese and his father Chief Johnny Chukwudi Metchie is from Nigeria and currently the President General of Umueri community in Anambra State. His family moved to Ghana when he was young, then emigrated to Canada when he was 6 years old. Metchie left Canada to play high school football in Maryland. Metchie was diagnosed with a slightly enlarged heart in high school, but doctors gave him clearance to play football.