The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has pledged to provide a peaceful environment for Nigerians to function, adding that relative peace has returned to Niger, Kaduna and Zamfara States in recent times. This Service stated this at a press briefing announcing activities lined up for the NAF 58th anniversary celebration with the theme, “Enhancing Nigerian Air Force Efficiency in Joint Operations for Effective Response to Contemporary National Security Imperatives”, scheduled to hold from May 19 to 21, 2022 at the NAF Base in Kano. The chairman, Organising Committee for NAF 58th Anniversary, Air Commodore Olasunkanmi Abidoye, said the Service in its 58 years of existence has grown into a formidable and respected force within the African continent and beyond. “It has also continued to make significant contributions in the areas of internal security, humanitarian and peace-keeping operations as well as restoration and sustenance of democracy on the African continent. It is only rational therefore, to celebrate its existence as well as the laudable achievements recorded over the years,” he said. Abidoye said the choice of this year’s theme was deliberately aimed at emphasising renewed focus on joint military operations and effective synergy among the Services and other security agencies as well as consolidate on the gains of the employment of airpower especially at this critical stage in the nation’s history. “It is also in tandem with the Chief of the Air Staff’s vision ‘To enhance and sustain critical airpower capabilities required for joint force employment in pursuit of national security imperatives’. “Accordingly, to mark this year’s Nigerian Air Force Day Celebration, series of activities have been lined up to enlighten the citizens of Nigerian Air Force efforts in the fight against insurgency, terrorism and other forms of criminality within the country. “Thus, there will be series of pre-event activities taking place simultaneously at Nigerian Air Force units across the country. These activities include Juma’at Prayers and Interdenominational Church Service on Friday, 13 and Sunday, 15 May 2022 respectively. There will also be medical outreaches to host communities across the country. Furthermore, the Nigerian Air Force Officers’ Wives Association (NAFOWA) will also embark on humanitarian support activities to some selected communities in Kano State. All these are geared towards winning the consent and support as well as appreciating Nigerians for their support and goodwill over the years,” he explained. He said the anniversary will also feature a seminar which is scheduled to hold on May 19, 2022 as well as the pulling out ceremony of members of 35th and 36th Regular Course who recently retired from the Service. “Specifically, the seminar will provide opportunity for seasoned experts to present papers on air to ground integration and operational efficiency as well as optimizing Nigerian Air Force platforms for effective joint force employment. The focal point of the Seminar is to proffer workable strategies aimed at checkmating various security challenges confronting us as a Nation,” he added. The Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, in a question and answer session, said the outcome of the seminar will be scrutinised and implemented to checkmate the fluid security threats. He said, “In the past two weeks or so we have seen a semblance of peace in Niger, Kaduna and Zamfara States.
We are looking for workable strategies and solutions, the good thing with this Seminar is that all our operational commanders are going to be there.The outcome will be implemented, what we have in the AFN is the Chief of the Air Staff Air Marshal Oladayo Amao gets things done,this is the new airforce, we want to get things done,we want to provide safe environment for Nigerians to go about their businesses even I its going to take us a year, 2 or 10 years, the focus is that we have to give Nigerians that peaceful environment to function.” Other activities he said are a golf kitty which will be held in Kano while other sporting activities will take place simultaneously in all Nigerian Air Force units across the country on Friday, May 20, 2022. Still on Friday, May 20, 2022, there will be a Re-union Night to honour some retired senior officers of the Nigerian Air Force after many years of meritorious service to the country. He said the activities marking the Nigerian Air Force Day Celebration is expected to end on Saturday, May 21, 2022 with a ceremonial parade, symbolic flypast, Research and Development (R&D) exhibition and photo gallery display.