Bundle, a social trading platform for cash and crypto has launched its web application for its over 80 assets and over 700,000 users across Nigeria and Ghana. It said the web app provides an alternative way for both existing and new users to explore their curiosities on the go. Visitors to the website will also be able to learn and stay informed with the latest news from Bundle through the blog. The new website also teases the launch of Bundle Futures. Despite regulatory pushback, Bundle has been able to cater to the needs of its user base through the integration of Cashlink, a P2P payments platform, which has served as a gateway for crypto to cash transfers. With over a million transactions within its first seven months, the success of Cashlink can be attributed to the escrow system which mitigates fraud from either side of the transaction. With the aim of helping users mitigate loss during a bear crypto market, they built simple tools to help users by releasing Bundle Leveraged Token (BLVTs) series that gives users the ability to hold leverage on a cryptocurrency that can either multiply the loss or profit on an asset. Bundle CEO, Emmanuel Babalola said “To promote the wider adoption of cryptocurrencies and further set the minds of people at ease, trading should be as easy and convenient as possible for all people. to services should be offered on multiple platforms with all users in mind and not just some.” He said as Bundle continues to grow, the need to evolve into its original mission becomes pertinent — a social finance app making crypto accessible to everyone. Bundle will be expanding across the continent this quarter which signifies the first step in the right direction, alongside implementations to pivot into a social finance product. On the issue of the multiple scam accounts across social media platforms, Babola explained that they working hand in hand with their risk and compliance team to remove these phishing accounts. They are also set to release a 2FA security feature to further protect its users. He implored Bundle users to ensure that any dealings on Twitter and Instagram are with their official handles, adding that Bundle would not ask you to click on any link or share your OTP with them.