Norebase, the African trade technology company building a single platform for businesses to start, scale and operate in any African country, has secured $1 million pre-seed funding round. Co-led by Samurai Incubate and Consonance Investment, the round also included participation from Future Africa, Ventures Platform, Microtraction, Boleh Venture, Voltron Capital, Wuri Ventures, Afropreneur, and angel investments from African tech ecosystem leaders Shola Akinlade (Paystack), Odunayo Eweniyi (Piggyvest), Adia Sowho (MTN Nigeria), Akin Oyebode, and Seni Sulyman. This raise will help accelerate the company’s plans to build a plug-and-play company incorporation technology, broaden its trademark registration technology stack, bolster its existing team of world-class talent and develop more research-led solutions. The Norebase team is leveraging a stack of technology to drive their cause of unlocking an era of Africa-wide prosperity by enabling anyone to do business easily in any African market. Africa’s combined GDP currently stands at $3 trillion and is projected to reach $29 trillion by 2050. With investment into the African tech startup space passing the $2Billion mark and projected to break records in 2022, Norebase is well-positioned to support entrepreneurs, founders, and businesses to start and scale across borders seamlessly and reach Africa’s 1.2 billion people. CEO at Norebase, Tola Onayemi, in a press statement, made available to LEADERSHIP, said Norebase is building a future where starting a business or expanding a business in any African country is as simple as clicking a single button. “We are deliberately building the single digital infrastructure and technology tools that will power trade across the continent. Africa’s startup space is rightly attracting the global business world’s attention as a region with enormous potential, and we are thrilled to connect new and existing businesses with the means with which they can scale their business in and beyond Africa more seamlessly. “The rapid acceleration of innovation across Africa and the growing attractiveness of new markets requires the know-how of a smoother cross-border expansion experience, and our team is the best at this,” Onayemi said. Norebase is also focused on ensuring the Intellectual Property of startups in Africa and international companies expanding to the continent are securely protected as they scale and navigate multiple territories, the CEO disclosed, adding that, the company has helped founders incorporate companies in Ghana, Kenya, South Africa, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Cote D’Ivoire, Togo, Tanzania, Egypt, Mauritius, and Burkina Faso, among others. To him, “we are delighted to be joined by a stellar roster of experienced and strategic investors, whose expertise will play a key role as we scale the Norebase goal of being partners for set-up, compliance, regulatory needs for both cross-border expansions and local markets. Given our global and Africa-wide ambitions, we consciously ensured our investors came from across Africa and the world.” Managing partner at Samurai Incubate Africa Inc, Rena Yoneyama stressed that, “it is truly impressive how Norebase is designing a future where every business and individual can experience Africa as one market. Their team comprises some of the best minds on the continent, helping simplify the complications of launching in any African market, and we are excited to be part of their growth journey.”