Since 1970 when it was first marked, the World Earth Day has become an annual event that is celebrated on the 22nd of April, to demonstrate support for environmental protection. On its 52nd anniversary, Kaduna state joined the rest of the world to raise awareness on the need to protect the environment and mitigate the effects of global warming. In a pre-event press conference, the Administrator of Kaduna Capital Territory Authority, Malam Muhammad Hafiz Bayero, disclosed comprehensive plans to clean up Kaduna and make it an environmentally-friendly city that is more habitable for residents. He further said that the Authority may bring back the monthly environmental sanitation exercise, introduce electric tricycles and pedestrian walk-ways and ban plastic containers in Kaduna city. On the D-Day, 503 residents turned up and helped clean the city from five points, namely Kawo bridge, Command Junction, Stadium Roundabout, Karji and Rigasa. However, before then, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, under the able leadership of Alhaji Jafa’aru Ibrahim Sani, has been promoting the Green Economy. So far, the ministry has planted 222,200 seedlings covering 200 hectares of economic trees across the 23 Local Government Areas of Kaduna state. In addition, it is also proposing 900,000 seedlings to be planted this year with the assistance of REDD+. Currently, the state has embarked on the desilting of all drainages in Kaduna Capital Territory Authority, Zaria Metropolitan Authority and Kafanchan Municipal Authority. As far back as 1979, Senator Gaylord Nelson, a United States law maker from Wisconsin, began what can be termed Environmental Activism. Since then, the world’s attention has become focused on the environment, either as a form of research or direct action, by planting of trees and discouraging human activities that endanger the environment which will deplete the ozone layer. In 1997, the Kyoto Protocol was adopted on 11th December but was ratified on 16th February, 2005. There are 192 Parties to the Protocol right now, which commits industrialized countries and economies in transition to limit and reduce Green House Gases (GHG) emissions in accordance with agreed individual targets. The Kyoto Protocol sets binding emission reduction targets for 37 industrialized countries, economies in transition and the European Union. Overall, these targets add up to an average 5 per cent emission reduction compared to 1990 levels, over the five year period of 2008–2012. In spite of its lofty ideals, six countries have not yet signed on the protocol and they include the United States, Vatican City and Taiwan, as well as Afghanistan, South Sudan and Andorra. However, 191 countries support the protocol. Significantly, the theme of this year’s World Earth Day is ‘’Invest in our Planet’’, and it aims to raise awareness about environmental protection and acknowledge the global climate crisis which is getting worse by the day. This requires strong need to reach Net-zero greenhouse gas emission by mid-century, to keep the global temperature below 1.5 Celsius and the focus has primarily been on reducing fossil fuel dependency. Already, President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated Nigeria’s commitment to the Net- Zero emission by 2060, in the recently concluded climate change conference, COP 26, in Glasgow, Scotland. Similarly, Kaduna state under able leadership of Malam Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai, an environmentally friendly governor, has warmed up to the idea. Specifically, the state government has been collaborating with the Nigeria Erosion and watershed management project (NEWMAP), the Reducing Emission from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD+) and UNDP, with sole aim of safeguarding the environment. Hassan is the Public Relations Officer of Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.