The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, has said the special Award for COVID-19 conferred on him was a moral burden to do more for the nation and government. He was conferred with the award
at the 19th National Productivity Day and the conferment of the National Productivity Order of Merit Award (NPOM) at the Presidential Villa in Abuja on Thursday. 47 other eminent Nigerians and organisations in both the public and private sectors, were conferred with awards for their high productivity, hard work, and excellence. According to the SG, “Well, it puts an additional moral burden of doing more for the nation and the government. It comes with a lot of feelings. “You know, my award is within the category of the Special Award for COVID-19. And most of you were active participants in the response. “And I believe that this award is dedicated to all the people that were involved and the national response to COVID-19. My colleagues on the COVID-19 production, that was awesome of you in the media, who worked assiduously in very difficult, hard times and dangerous in itself. “Because we were dealing with a virus that was unknown to ensure that lives and livelihoods of Nigerians were protected. And the process, we were able to deal with the adverse effects of COVID-19 one that deals with the economy. “The economic sustainability plan was able to cause us to exit the recession in a very, very, very quick time addressing the changes in governance because COVID-19 came with his difficult ways of oppression, we had to really do a switch to virtual meetings, virtual way of running government activities, with very little face to face contact. “So, I believe that this award will spur us was to greater achievements in the future, as the events of government and the world dynamics are for,” he added. On his part, MD/CEO of Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc, Matthew Azoji, who was also conferred with the Award of National Productivity, said the company will continue to pursue excellence. He called on the government to support pharmaceutical manufacturers to improve access to foreign exchange. According to him, more than 90% of input materials for manufacturing in Nigeria were being imported. He said, “the challenges government would like the government to pay attention, we are a local manufacturer of pharmaceutical products. And the foreign exchange is a major issue for us. “We want to ask the government to support the pharmaceutical manufacturer, a group of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria to improve access to foreign exchange, because it has been a major problem, more than 90% of input materials for manufacturing in Nigeria are imported. “If there is a special intervention that the government can do, for local manufacturers particularly, pharmaceutical manufacturers that are improving access to medicines for the ordinary Nigerians. “So, if you have better access to foreign exchange, it will improve the availability of medicines and in a cost-effective manner, because the foreign exchange has become a major cost of increasing cost of pharmaceuticals in Nigeria.”